PERMALINK: /post/85711477/x-treme-advertising-yeah
PUBLISHED: Mar 11th, 02009 10:38pm
TAGS: advertising, web

[<span class='person'>Dan Frost</span>, for the
<span class='newspaper'>Los Angeles Times</span>:][lat]

 [lat]: http://articles.latimes.com/p/2009/mar/11/business/fi-webads11 "‘Web ads popping up in bold new ways’"

> They’re bigger, they’re bolder, and soon they’ll be covering up large swaths
> of some of your favorite Web pages.
> 
> The <span class='organization'>Online Publishers <abbr>Assn.</abbr></span> on
> Tuesday released several new in-your-face advertising formats designed to be
> both more obtrusive and interactive.
>
> …
>
> <q>Studies show we ignore banner ads,</q> said <span class='person'>Jose
> Castillo</span>, a new media consultant in Johnson City, <abbr>Tenn.</abbr>
> “Making them bigger and more intrusive won’t work. We will tune those out as
> well.”

[<span class='person'>Mandy Brown</span>, two days ago:][mb]

 [mb]: http://aworkinglibrary.com/library/archives/on_advertising/ "‘On Advertising’"

> Through this premise we find ourselves in a familiar conundrum: it is the
> reading experience that brings people to the web, thereby making them
> available to the siren song of the advertisers; but it is the advertisers,
> who, in their effort to gain purchase over ever more significant corners of
> our brains, must distract and diminish the reading experience lest they be
> ignored. The story goes that every so often an advertiser surprises with a
> particularly innovative method of annoyance, after which a certain amount of
> time passes and we learn — automatically, involuntarily — to tune them out.

To me, this venture is clearly a terrible idea. Annoying users is a poor choice
of business model.
