# `.rc` format documentation

(Hopefully) thorough documentation of the format used to store all media on
this site.

## General notes

* A given metadata tag (see below) may only appear once in each file.
* Metadata tags may appear in any order. I personally prefer to keep them
alphabetized for easier skimming.
* All notation in the form `U+nnnn` refers to a valid codepoint in the
[Unicode][unicode] standard.
* The entire entry must be valid [<abbr class='smallcaps'>UTF</abbr>-8][utf8].

 [unicode]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode "Wikipedia article for Unicode"
 [utf8]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UTF-8 "Wikipedia article for UTF-8"

## File structure

Every file using this format will have the following structure:

    METATAG1: value
    METATAG2: value
    --
    Entry text.

That is:

* All required metadata tags (and any desired optional tags), each with the
following form: a valid tag name (in uppercase
<abbr class='smallcaps'>ASCII</abbr>), a U+003A COLON character, a U+0020
SPACE, the tag’s data, and a [newline][newline]. The entire tag must appear on
a single line.
* Two consecutive U+002D HYPHEN-MINUS characters, followed by a newline.
* Freeform text using valid [Markdown][mdown] syntax.

 [ascii]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ASCII "Wikipedia article for ASCII"
 [mdown]: http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/ "Documentation for Markdown format"
 [newline]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newline "Wikipedia article for newline"

## Metadata tags

### `AUTHOR`

*Optional.* If the entry is material written by a third party, gives the
author’s name as written in the source. Should not be included if the author
is unknown.

Example: `AUTHOR: Charles Dickens`

### `BOOKMARK`

*Optional.* Full <abbr class='smallcaps'>URI</abbr> to an external
bookmarking service’s collection page for the
<abbr class='smallcaps'>URI</abbr> specified by `LINK`. If `LINK` is not
present, this tag should be ignored.

Example: `BOOKMARK: http://delicious.com/url/9bee2228e34ffe2f93a4f02a2c5f070c`

### `COPYRIGHT`

*Optional.* Five-digit year of publication, with leading zeroes as needed.
Should only be used for material by third parties. May optionally include name
of time-of-publication copyright holder after U+002C COMMA, U+0020 SPACE.

Example: `COPYRIGHT: 02009`

### `GEOLOCATION`

*Optional.* Gives physical location of entry’s writing and publication. Can
be specified as a postal address or a <abbr class='smallcaps'>GPS</abbr>
coordinate pair.

Postal addresses can be specified to whatever granularity is desired, but if,
<abbr lang='la'>e.g.</abbr>, a city is given, then the state/province/&c. must
also be given for clarity. Postal addresses take the form `ADDR address`:
U+0041 LATIN CAPITAL LETTER A, U+0044 LATIN CAPITAL LETTER D, U+0044 LATIN
CAPITAL LETTER D, U+0052 LATIN CAPITAL LETTER R, U+0020 SPACE, followed by the
address.

<abbr class='smallcaps'>GPS</abbr> coordinate pairs take the form `GPS
coordinate-system dd-latitude, dd-longitude`: U+0047 LATIN CAPITAL LETTER G,
U+0050 LATIN CAPITAL LETTER P, U+0053 LATIN CAPITAL LETTER S, U+0020 SPACE, the
name of the coordinate system (substituting U+002D HYPHEN-MINUS for any
spaces), latitude in [decimal degrees][decdeg] (excluding degree symbol),
U+002C COMMA, U+0020 SPACE, longitude in decimal degrees (again excluding
degree symbol).

 [decdeg]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decimal_degrees "Wikipedia article for decimal degrees"

Examples: `GEOLOCATION: ADDR 233 S Wacker Dr #3500 Chicago, IL USA`;
`GEOLOCATION: GPS WGS84 51.500611, -0.124611`

### `KEYWORDS`

*Optional.* A list of one or more keywords relating to the entry’s contents.
If there is more than one keyword, a U+002C COMMA and U+0020 SPACE will be
placed between each keyword.

*Note:* Keywords may be ordered as desired. It is the parser’s responsibility
to handle matching and sorting correctly.

Example: `KEYWORDS: demo, example`

### `LICENSE`

*Optional.* Material’s license at time of entry’s publication. If the copyright
is expired, this would be `public-domain`; if published under a
[Creative Commons][cc] license — <abbr lang='la'>e.g.</abbr>
[Attribution, Non-commercial][ccbync], this would be the abbreviated license
name (<abbr lang='la'>e.g.</abbr> <abbr class='smallcaps'>CC:BY-NC</abbr>). If
no `LICENSE` is specified, the material is assumed to be under full copyright
at time of publication.

 [cc]: http://creativecommons.org "Creative Commons homepage"
 [ccbync]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/us/

Example: `LICENSE: CC:BY-NC`

### `LINK`

*Optional.* If the entry is meant as a bookmark or commentary on an external
link, this provides a full <abbr class='smallcaps'>URI</abbr> to the original
material.

Example: `LINK: http://ratafia.info`

### `MEDIUM`

*Optional.* For audio, print, and video content, this gives the parser
additional information that can optionally be used to determine eventual
presentation.

*Note:* This tag is freeform, so the information it gives may be unusable.

Example: `MEDIUM: magazine`

### `PERMALINK`

*Required.* Full <abbr class='smallcaps'>URI</abbr> for the entry’s final,
canonical location on the local site.

Example: `PERMALINK: http://ratafia.info/02009/April/06/text/on-tumblelogs`

### `PUBLISHED`

*Required.* Entry’s initial publication date in the full *extended* format
specified by [<abbr class='smallcaps'>ISO</abbr> 8601:2004][iso8601] with the
year being given a leading zero for a total of five digits — a practice taken
from [<abbr class='organization'>The Long Now Foundation</abbr>][longnow].

 [iso8601]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601
 [longnow]: https://longnow.org/ "The Long Now Foundation’s homepage"

*Note:* In cases where the date of publication is not exactly known, follow
the *duration format* specified by <abbr class='smallcaps'>ISO</abbr>
8601:2004 to the maximum available precision.
 
Example: `PUBLISHED: 02009-04-06T21:38:00-0400`

### `SOURCE`

*Optional.* Name of the service or publication where the entry was originally
published. Whether a given `SOURCE` affects the entry’s eventual presentation
is the parser’s decision.

*Note:* This tag is freeform, so the information it gives may be unusable.

Example: `SOURCE: Tumblr`

### `SOURCERANGE`

*Optional.* For audio, print, and video, specifies what portion of the source
material is presented. Print takes the form `p x-y` (U+0070 LATIN SMALL LETTER
P, U+0020 SPACE, <var>n</var>-digit page number, U+002D HYPHEN-MINUS,
<var>n</var>-digit page number). Audio and video use the duration format
specified in [<abbr class='smallcaps'>ISO</abbr> 8601:2004][iso8601]; there is
no additional signifier corresponding to print’s leading `p `. If more than one
segment (in either formats) is used, a U+002C COMMA and U+0020 SPACE will be
placed between each segment.

Examples: `SOURCERANGE: p 20-25, 27-29`; `SOURCERANGE: PT0H0M0S/PT0H3M55S`

### `SOURCEURI`

*Optional.* Full <abbr class='smallcaps'>URI</abbr> for the entry’s original
location. Should only be given if the entry was not originally published on
the local site.

Example: `SOURCEURI: https://twitter.com/stilist/status/1113665797`

### `TITLE`

*Required.* Entry’s full title. If none is specified by the source, use the
first fifty characters of the text, stripped of all Markdown and
<abbr class='smallcaps'>HTML</abbr> formatting. (If the text is fewer than
fifty characters long, then the full text should be used. If the entry also
lacks text, use `(untitled)`.

Example: `TITLE: On Tumblelogs`

### `UPDATED`

*Required.* Follows the same rules as `PUBLISHED`, and on initial publication
will have the same value as `PUBLISHED`. Each subsequent edit will fully
replace the `UPDATED` timestamp.

Example: `UPDATED: 02009-04-07T14:52:12-0400`

## Full example

### Sample document

    BOOKMARK: http://pinboard.in/url:45c08837fb8ba45be16bf19647b0915319147265/
    GEOLOCATION: ADDR New York, NY USA
    KEYWORDS: chiptunes, history, joshuadiaz, kevindriscoll, music
    LINK: http://journal.transformativeworks.org/index.php/twc/article/view/96/94
    PERMALINK: http://ratafia.info/post/92895364/endless-loop-a-brief-history-of-chiptunes
    PUBLISHED: 02009-04-04T11:28:00-0400
    TITLE: Endless loop: A brief history of chiptunes
    UPDATED: 02009-04-04T11:28:00-0400
    --
    I’ve loved chiptunes and tracker tunes since I stumbled across scene.org in
    02003 and went on a download spree. This paper summarizes the culture’s
    history.

### A possible parsing result in <abbr class='smallcaps'>HTML</abbr>

    <h1><a href='http://journal.transformativeworks.org/index.php/twc/article/view/96/94'>Endless loop: A brief history of chiptunes</a></h1>
    
    <p>I’ve loved chiptunes and tracker tunes since I stumbled across scene.org in
    02003 and went on a download spree. This paper summarizes the culture’s
    history.</p>
    
    <p>Keywords: <a href='/keywords/chiptunes'> <a href='/keywords/history'>
     <a href='/keywords/joshuadiaz'> <a href='/keywords/kevindriscoll'>
     <a href='/keywords/music'></p>
    
    <p>Published 4 April, 02009</p>

## Error handling

Whenever a document standard is created, it is certain that the creation of
documents that violate the standard will follow. Because I’ve developed this
format as part of an effort to preserve my work a long time, I feel it’s
important to have a fairly strict approach to bad data.

### Unknown tag names

Any metadata tags that are not specified in this document cannot be relied on
and should be discarded. (Note: I am open to suggestions for new tags.)

### Invalid tag data

Tags containing data that does not match the above formats should be ignored,
even if t

### Repeated tag names

In the event that a given tag appears more than once in an entry, the first
instance should be used and any further instances ignored. Validators may
give the user an opportunity to mark one instance as correct, removing
the other instance(s) from the entry.

This is somewhat less strict, but 
