PERMALINK: http://ratafia.info/post/90530195/transcript-of-howto-149-surprising-ways-to, http://ratafia.info/post/90532973/transcript-of-howto-149-surprising-ways-to
PUBLISHED: Mar 27th, 2009 10:28pm
TAGS: johngruber, merlinmann, podcast, sxsw, sxswinteractive02009, transcript

Transcript of <span class='person'>John Gruber</span> and
<span class='person'>Merlin Mann</span>’s <abbr class='smallcaps'>SxSW</abbr>
Interactive 02009 presentation, [HOWTO: 149 Surprising Ways to Turbocharge Your
Blog with Credibility!][149].

 [149]: http://sxsw.com/node/1498

Both [Gruber][gfollow] and [Mann][mfollow] have written follow-ups — Gruber’s
is unsurprisingly the longer of the two, while Mann’s has the audio (and
comics!).

 [gfollow]: http://daringfireball.net/2009/03/obsession_times_voice
 [mfollow]: http://www.43folders.com/2009/03/25/blogs-turbocharged

**Note:** There is some language involved, which I have left uncensored.

## Participants

* [John Gruber][df]
* [Merlin Mann][mann]

 [df]: http://daringfireball.net/ "John Gruber’s home page"
 [mann]: http://www.merlinmann.com/ "Merlin Mann’s home page"

## Transcript

> <cite>Merlin Mann:</cite>
> This is [43folders], and I’m Merlin, and this is my pal John Gruber, from
> [Daring Fireball][df] dot net; how’s it going, John?

 [43folders]: http://www.43folders.com/ "43folders website"

> <cite>John Gruber:</cite>
> Good, how are you, Merlin? Good to be here.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> I’m doing extraordinarily well. This is — boy, this is really good for our
> first take, isn’t it?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, it’s great. One taken out.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> That’s all we need. Well, anyway, you all know John from Daring Fireball.
> We did a talk about a week-and-a-half ago, at South by Southwest in Austin,
> and we talked about blogging. Do you remember that?

 [sxsw]: http://sxsw.com/ "South by Southwest website"

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I do.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah. We talked about trying to do a better job with your blog, and kinda
> doing your best, and trying to move beyond, like, a quick buck, to seeing
> kinda longer-term opportunities. Is that roughly what we talked about?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, I think big picture it was about, maybe, turning yourself around
> from having your primary goal to be making a bundle of money — which probably
> isn’t gonna happen anyway, and really leads you the wrong way — and instead
> turn around, and just think… find your obsession, and follow it.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah. I totally… and, y’know, the response to it’s been really good, which
> has been kinda exciting, and so… we wanna share that with you today. So, we
> stole the audio straight off of the site at South by Southwest, so we’re
> counting on our friend <span class='person'>Hugh <ins>Forrest</ins></span> to
> run interference with Legal; it runs just about an hour, and we’ll have a
> couple comments after you listen to it. For our audience’s sake, John, do you
> remember what the title of our talk was?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Sure, it was very short and punchy. Title was: ‘HOWTO: 149 Surprising Ways
> to Turbocharge Your Blog with Credibility!’

* * *

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> First of all, I cannot believe that somebody let us have this title. John
> and I do a lot of ambitious things that we’re pretty sure won’t turn out, as
> you know, and we figured somebody would change that. Don’t you think,
> kinda?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> 100%. It was, might as well have been titled ‘Title to Come’.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah. Yeah, T.K. Gump, yeah. It’s funny, because we pitched this months
> ago, and as the title implied, we were prepared to come in and provide a
> <span lang='fr'>Tour de Force</span> middle-aged–white–guy rant about how all
> of you are doing it wrong. Because… is that a core competency? Is that
> fair?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> It’s pretty much all I do.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Okay. And just to be clear, it’s not, John’s not gonna tell you how it
> could be a little better — he might get to that toward the end — but he’s
> mostly just gonna tell you you’re doing it wrong.

> Know what’s funny is, so we’re like ‘Hey, we’re gonna do this thing, and
> we’re gonna be like “Ah, don’t make a shitty site, where you’re just trying
> to get on Digg. Like, it’s great to be on Digg, but, like, quality, maaaan,
> we’re great!”’ And then, what, a couple months went by, right?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right. Well, when we got started it… When we got started the general
> economic situation was pretty much like a constant series of news articles
> about ‘Are we in a recession? Is this technically a recession? Y’need 0.9%
> decrease in growth over ten months, or blah blah blah’, and now, y’know, it’s
> ‘Are we in a depression?’.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, it got to be… of course, we hadn’t done anything on this at all,
> for… let’s just say we, let’s say it was done, what, a month ago, we were all
> done?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Exactly.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> But for a long time we didn’t do anything, and finally, it’s like ‘Can we
> afford the flight?’. ’Cause, yeah, I’m glad that I can educate you on how
> you’re doing it wrong, but I don’t know if I have enough money in the
> bank.

> It’s been a weird trip; there’s a time that John and I have lived through,
> that I think — at least in my own mind — I’ll remember as the golden age of
> the one-person boutique personal publishing empire. And if you were lucky
> enough to accidentally land on that gravy train, for lack of a better word,
> it was pretty, it was kind of an interesting ride.

> But… I think the original idea of what we wanna talk about in the end has
> very little to do with any economic indicators. Fair enough?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Totally correct.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah. It is a different talk. I think there are four assumptions that we
> wanna toss out, just to frame this, very quickly. We're not here to tell you
> what you should make, and we’re not here to tell you how you should make it,
> or what your ultimate goals should be — but we’re gonna assume four things
> about everybody in here. Step zero is we’re gonna assume that all of you make
> things. Right? Like maybe have a job, and you type in Excel, and you’re not a
> painter, and you don’t have a beret. But we’re going to assume that you make
> things. We're gonna assume that you care very much about certain issues or
> topics, to a point where you’re really verging on obsession. We're gonna
> assume that it’s important to you — whether you’re a writer, a photographer,
> or an interpretive dance choreographer — that you wanna get better at it, and
> that it’s valuable to you to use a platform like personal publishing to
> become a better writer, thinker, photographer, whatever. We're gonna assume
> that it matters to you to have the credibility and respect of people you
> admire. And, for the sake of argument — just for fun, to make it worth the
> flight — we’re gonna assume that you would not mind making a little bit of
> money, or finding some kind of an opportunity that goes beyond the strictly
> self-improvement aspects.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> And so there’s this quote that I’ve sort of hung this whole thing on,
> right from the outset, from <span class='person'>Walt Disney</span>, and
> it’s, to me, it’s the thing that made me wanna do this talk. And he said: ‘We
> don’t make movies to make money. We make money to make more movies.’ And I
> think that’s so profound, and to me, it’s not about a subtle difference in
> strategy; it’s a fundamental, you’re either going this way, or you’re going
> that way. And so if your interest is making money, and then you decide, ‘All
> right, I wanna make a boatload of money from a website, how do I do that?’,
> well then the next fifty-seven minutes or whatever are gonna be useless to
> you, because that is not what we’re here to say. You can, y’know, you can get
> up, we won’t mind, go see [<span class='person'><ins>Jeffrey</ins>
> Zeldman</span>][zeld] —

 [zeld]: http://www.zeldman.com/ "Jeffrey Zeldman’s home page"

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, definitely go see Zeldman. That guy’s smart.

> Yeah, cause I mean, I think the one thing I really regret, I think, about
> that kind of funny title — it’s kinda funny, right? sorta? yeah, it’s a
> little funny, yeah — the part about that I wanna make sure we don’t
> misconstrue in the desire to be a smartass is that, like I say, I’m not
> trying to tell you what you should do, and I’m not trying to judge anything
> that I just isn’t, that I would say just is not for me. And I think the dirty
> little secret of what we’re trying to say ultimately is that it shouldn’t
> matter to me. You shouldn’t care. If I’m not in your target audience, if I’m
> not the person you wanna reach, we should both be totally cool with you not
> caring what I think. And that ultimately, the people that I admire — and I
> think that John admires — it’s not about arrogance, but it *is* about having
> the confidence to know what you wanna say, and who you wanna say it to. And
> whether you wanna talk about having a good run on Twitter, or whether you
> wanna talk about 135 exciting new ways to launch Firefox, that’s your
> decision. But we wanna help you do the shit out of that, in a way that’s
> super-high quality. And I think that’s kind of where we’re heading. Fair
> enough so far?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, I think so.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Um… this is a little rant of mine that I’m gonna quickly go through. I
> have this theory… I dunno if you wanna call this blogging, personal
> publishing, insert-your-favorite-gerund for putting things on the web that
> you made. There’s a controlling metaphor for this that means a lot to me,
> and it’s… I tried to write this down in a way that’s clear, so I’ll read
> this.

> Topic times voice. Or, if you’re a little bit more of a maverick, *obsession*
> times voice.

> So what does that mean? I think almost all of the best non-fiction that has
> ever been made comes from the result of somebody who can’t stop thinking
> about a certain topic — a very specific aspect, in some cases, of a certain
> topic. And second, they got really good at figuring out what they had to say
> about it.

> And if you have obsession without voice — or topic without voice — what do
> you have? You have basically a keyword search. You have pointless reblogging.
> You have — ah, I should say reblogging without curation, right? You guys know
> what I’m talking about? We all love these sites; we all, we enjoy going
> places where we’re seeing things that we’ve seen before, about… steampunk.
> And not a problem with steampunk! Steampunk’s… but, y’know, do it well.

> And then, on the other hand, if you have voice without an obsession, you get
> a lot of, y’know, people commenting on the Thai food that they just had, on
> Twitter.

> And I guess what we’re saying is to figure out where you are, as somebody who
> wants to get better. We're assuming you wanna become like a lion of this
> stuff. And I guess what we’re saying is we wanna help you figure out whatever
> it is that you wanna do — and whatever outcome you wanna see as a result, how
> do you use a platform like personal publishing <ins>to</ins> become really
> great, to really become kind of like the go-to person for whatever
> <ins>the</ins> topic you’re obsessed with is.

> Oh, here’s the line I wrote this morning, even though this was done a month
> ago. I said, whatever your topic is, try to figure how to be better at it
> than 80% of everybody else in the world. I… I think that’s very ambitious,
> but I’m gonna say that’s — and you know what, you probably won’t be.
> Right?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right. And I mean, I think that there’s… It’s almost like we need to warn
> you that there’s a certain inherent douchiness to what we’re doing, as we’re
> sitting up here and sort of, in some ways, holding ourselves up as the
> examples that *are* doing it right. And that’s, y’know, it’s sort of
> un-humble and not really what you’re supposed to do, and y’know, to be a
> humble, nice person. But...

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> We're trying, right now.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> And that’s really the thing; for me —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> That’s the 80%, is the trying, really.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> — I’ve got this thing, where what I write; I had this idea at the
> beginning, and I’ve always liked the <span class='magazine'>New Yorker</span>
> magazine, and it’s, just because it’s so well-written, and they will just
> take any topic that whoever’s writing about and go into such great length
> about it, even if it’s just one tiny angle of it, and they’ll just go…
> y’know, if they need six thousand words for it, it’s six thousand words, and
> it’s just so well-written.

> And that just is like in a nutshell, when I wanna remind myself why I’m doing
> it at Daring Fireball, is I want to write about these topics *I’m* obessed
> with — and I just assume you guys know what those topics are, I don’t have to
> rehash them — but… if they were gonna be covered in the
> <span class='magazine'>New Yorker</span>, and if they were gonna pay me to do
> it, how would that be? How hard would I have to work to do that? And you
> might be saying ‘John, I like your stuff, that’s why I’m here to see you; I
> love your site, you really write about some of this
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>UI</abbr> stuff; and oh, tabs, that thing about the
> tabs — ’

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Tabs, yeah…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> ‘ — in Safari, oh, that was great! —’

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> This is a man who cares about tabs.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> ‘— Oh, what was fantastic, but let me tell you something, buddy, that shit
> is not from the <span class='magazine'>New Yorker</span>.’. But that’s
> exactly it! I would be the first one to tell you that I’ve never hit that
> mark, and that’s…

> I think it’s so important to have a goal that’s out there that you know is
> beyond your reach, so that you’re always improving. I do feel, I feel that I
> am such a better writer now than when I started the site six years ago. I
> mean, there’s just no doubt in my mind that I’m better at it. And I still
> feel like I’m nowhere near as good as I wanna be. I can write something and
> it’ll be the article that, y’know, when I meet people at a place like here,
> and they’ll remind me, they’ll say ‘I love that thing you wrote a couple
> weeks ago’, and it’s something that I just think, ‘Oh my God, that is so far
> short of the idea I set out to write, but thank you so much for saying it’,
> but that to me is the whole point, is that you’ve gotta have a goal that is
> so far out of your reach, and… it seems to me that almost everybody else is
> setting their goal to write…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> … write on a very broad topic that a lot of other people cover to a very
> large audience that they they don’t really care about.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right, and they’re —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Some, some people; not everybody. But there’s… if everything is what you
> wanna do, then you’re not really doing a thing. If you wanna make everybody
> listen to something you have to say about everything all the time, how do
> they know it’s for them? How do you know that you’ve reached the right
> person, if you’re trying to please everybody? And, y’know, for me, I’ve got
> another metric that I use — I like John’s; I mean, I’m not the writer John
> is, and I aspire to be — I’ll take it in a slightly different direction.
> Y’knoww, John’s *very* anal retentive; I don’t know if you follow what John
> does, but I mean, I don’t know if you know on Twitter, John’s wife,
> [Amy Jane][ajt] — who you should follow, is the funniest person on
> Twitter — and she’ll just talk about how he, for like half an hour, he’ll
> talk about kerning, like on something in a commercial, ’cause he really
> really really cares about that. And you know what? Almost none of you care
> about that, and that’s okay with him. But for those of you who also really
> really really care about kerning, it’s nice to find somebody who’s on the
> same page.

> And if John decided instead that, like, he wanted to suddenly branch off into
> something that he didn’t really care about because he thought it would get
> him a lot of pageviews, he’s gonna cut into muscle, by not caring about what
> you both already care about. And so, for me, I have to be honest, I aspire to
> different kinds of things; I’m definitely all over the map, and I’m kind of
> desperately always trying different things to figure out if this is the thing
> I wanna do, but one thing I do, I think about it differently.

> I think about it in terms of, the way I put it is — you guys okay? I think
> about it in terms, the phrase is, ‘Who do I wanna delight?’. I try to think a
> lot, less about, like, ‘Is this something that will, y’know, get me this kind
> of link?’, and more like ‘Is this something that John would think is not a
> piece of crap?’. ‘Is this something that, like, if Zeldman saw it, or if
> [<span class='person'>Dave Gray</span>][dgray] saw this, like, would Dave be
> into it?’ Like, if it’s something funny, like,
> Adam — lonelysandwich — doesn’t think much of anything I do is funny, but I
> aspire to make <span class='person'>Adam Lisagor</span> laugh.

> Do you follow me? Can you think about, like, one face behind your monitor
> that you see when you’re making something? Like, can you tell, like, whether
> you’ve made something that would make somebody’s day? Or are you just
> thinking about a big pot of people who will click on your stuff? Because the
> truth is, once you figure out who those faces are, it gets a lot easier to
> make something that you’re really really proud of, regardless of what it is
> that you wanna make.

 [ajt]: http://twitter.com/amyjane "Amy Jane’s Twitter page"
 [dgray]: http://www.davegrayinfo.com/ "Dave Gray’s home page"
 [lonelys]: http://lonelysandwich.com/ "Adam Lisagor’s home page"

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Even with something as absolutely stupid as jokes you publish on Twitter.
> It is true. And you do get a certain kind of feed back, like with the
> [Favrd][favrd], or ‘fah-vard’ — how do you…

 [favrd]: http://favrd.textism.com/

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> I say ‘f’vard’.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> ‘F’vard’? Like… that’s like [the elephant][babar], isn’t that the
> elephant..?

 [babar]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Babar_the_Elephant "Wikipedia article for Babar the Elephant"

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Oh yeah, F’vard, he’s the one with the crown.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right. But the weird thing about that is it is true. And we cheat — I
> mean, we are the worst cheaters in the world at Twitter, because we —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> We use Wikipedia and a dictionary.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Well, and we wrote, like, scripts to, like, add subscribers and
> autofollow…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> <ins>unclear</ins> <abbr class='smallcaps'>SEO</abbr> thing…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> … ungodly subscriber counts and so of course we get on Favrd for really
> bad jokes. But to me, I get a thrill when someone who… to me, it doesn’t
> matter how many people say the joke is funny; but if there’s somebody who I
> really like who did, oh man, that is the greatest. Even if it’s like…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Oh, totally. Like, if you’re watching Favrd to see who favorited your
> stuff, like… I mean, it’s nice, I like it when a lot of people like
> something, but like, when — God, why am I kissing Zeldman’s ass so bad? He’s
> not even here — but I see his little funny orange icon come up, and I’m like,
> oh my gosh, Zeldman thought something I did was okay. And yeah, that’s needy;
> I’ll own that. But I dunno, I think that’s meaningful.

> There’s this… I think it’s <span class='person'>Stephen King</span>; I know
> it’s Stephen King, but I think the phrase he uses is ‘ideal reader’. There’s
> this book of his that most people are sick of me talking about, called
> <span class='book'>On Writing</span>, that I like a lot. There’s two kinds of
> people: there’s people who groan because you talk about <span class='book'>On
> Writing</span>, and there’s people who've read it and go ‘It changed my
> game.’. Whether you liked <span class='book'>Carrie</span> or not. But he
> uses this phrase ‘ideal reader’, which is, for him that’s often his wife, or
> the [first reader][pubread], if you’ve ever heard that phrase. And again, I’m
> talking about photography, I’m talking about music; whatever you make. Like,
> who are you making it for? Who’s your ideal reader? Who’s your ideal reader,
> John?

 [pubread]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Publisher’s_reader "Wikipedia article for publisher’s reader"

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> My ideal reader is like a second version of me. Like, I just imagine — no,
> I do! I imagine —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> You're gonna go blind.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I, y’know, I’m just up here to lay it all out. I’m gonna be very honest.
> And it is… it’s totally…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> We're pushing the douche button, but I think that’s gonna be okay.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I mean, but that is why, it’s like someone in my racket who’s doing the
> whole thing from home, most days I don’t wear pants. ’Cause there’s a lot of
> touching yourself involved.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Ya gotta find your comfort zone.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> But it is. It’s me, in my mind it is that I had the idea to do this thing,
> the thing that has become Daring Fireball. I started it in 02002, but I had
> the idea long before that. And it just never seemed quite right, never seemed
> quite right. And I’m not sure what happened, but at some time in 02002 it
> seemed like, okay, I’ve gotta actually do it and try it and start it.

> But in my mind, there’s, like, another version of me that is still thinking
> now in 02009 ‘I oughta do that site where I tell everybody how they’re wrong
> about everything.’. Do my little grey background with the white text because
> I think it looks better, and not have any crap on the page, and all these
> ideas. But there’s a version of me that still hasn’t done it, and he’s out
> there, and he thinks about the same things I think about, and he wishes that
> people would write about these things in great detail, and that’s who I write
> for. I just imagine him out there, and he just loves it.

> And maybe that’s, like, the worst thing possible, ’cause that’s the thing
> that’s keeping him from actually doing his own site, because my site is so
> spot — ‘Oh, I wish I’d said that! Oh, I wish I’d said that!’. And I just keep
> trying to get that. And I always think too, about, like, is he out there
> thinking ‘Why hasn’t Gruber written about *blank* yet?’? Because I know he’s
> thinking ‘Oh my God. He’s gotta have a story in the works about
> *whatever*.’.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> You said something that I’ve seen quoted in other places — I dunno where
> you originally said this. One time we were talking on the phone and you said
> this, and I was like, y’know…

> At a time when it was considered <span lang='fr'>de rigueur</span> to have
> comments, and I still had comments on my site because I thought I had to have
> comments on my site, I was like ‘You don’t do comments. What’s the deal with
> that?’ And you, like, you said — you probably remember what you said — and
> you said it in this kind of passionate tone, and it was kind of scary — and
> you were like ‘I wanna own every single pixel on my site, from the top left
> to the lower right. And if I have somebody come in — even if it’s somebody
> incredibly smart; even if it’s whoever; even if it’s [SeoulBrother][sbro]
> comes in and has something to say, like somebody really smart and really
> funny, like, it’s not my site any more.’.

> Well okay, so should you turn off comments? No. That’s not what we’re saying.
> But we are, I am saying, figure out, if you do decide to own every pixel of
> what you make — and I’m not saying I do; I’m pretty slack about this
> stuff — but I think it’s a good pattern, if you’re thinking about this stuff,
> to figure out how you own every pixel of what you’re making, to the point
> where you *know* you’re reaching who you wanna reach. If it’s a broad
> audience, that’s not a problem. Reach the shit out of a broad audience.

> But if you’re sitting there going, like, ‘I really hope
> <span class='person'>Malcolm Gladwell</span> sees this someday’, or ‘I really
> hope <span class='person'>Anne Lamott</span> sees this one day’, or, God love
> me, ‘I really hope Stephen King sees this and thinks this is smart, ’cause
> that would mean a lot to me’, then that that gets you thinking in a really
> different way from ‘I just need to post twelve times a day.’. It’s a very
> different approach.

 [derig]: http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/de_rigueur "Wiktionary article for de rigueur"
 [sbro]: http://seoulbrother.com/

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I have a good story about that sort of thing, where you finally find out
> that the people who you hope are reading and enjoying your site are actually
> reading it.

> And this was two years ago at <abbr class='smallcaps'>WWDC</abbr>, the big
> Mac nerd development conference, and it was the first one after they had
> announced the iPhone; the iPhone wasn’t even actually out yet, and so you
> couldn’t actually have an iPhone, but everybody already wanted to program for
> it at <abbr class='smallcaps'>WWDC</abbr>, ’cause they’d already said that
> it’s gonna be Cocoa, and Cocoa programmers, as soon as they hear that, they
> just get a big stiffy, and… all they wanted to do was write iPhone software.
> And at the big announcement with <span class='person'>Steve Jobs</span> and
> <span class='person'>Scott Forstall</span> — the guy who’s in charge of this
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>SDK</abbr> stuff — they come out, and they, quote,
> they say ‘We have a really really sweet solution for all you guys who wanna
> write software for the iPhone.’. And it was: you can write web apps and
> they’ll run in MobileSafari.

> And it was so exactly the — the four thousand people who go to
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>WWDC</abbr> are the four thousand people out of the
> six billion on the planet who least wanted to hear that. And, so, the
> consensus, it was, like… Those announcements go out they’re, like… they’re
> really for the press, ’cause those things go out and
> <span class='newspaper'><abbr class='smallcaps'>USA</abbr> Today</span>
> writes about them and <span class='person'>David Pogue</span> writes about
> them in the <span class='newspaper'>New York Times</span> and millions and
> millions then read what Pogue wrote in the <span class='newspaper'>New York
> Times</span>.

> But for the four thousand people in the room? I described it in
> [my coverage][sand] of that as a ‘shit sandwich’. They wanted to hear the
> opposite, and it was set up — the worst part about it that was it was set up
> as ‘We have a really sweet solution’, and that really, it was, like,
> electric, I mean, all of a sudden nobody was really thinking that’s what they
> were gonna say.

> So the next day — fast forward twenty-four hours. I’m on the escalators in
> the Moscone Center; I’m coming down, and right behind me is
> <span class='person'>Phil Schiller</span>, y’know, senior vice president,
> right underneath Steve Jobs, the guy did the MacWorld keynote, y’know, a
> couple weeks ago — and I go, I’m gonna introduce myself. I turn around, and
> I said ‘Hey, Phil, I’m John Gruber.’. He goes ‘Hey, John! It’s so great to
> finally meet you!’ And he was so happy, he totally recognized me, and then
> the next thing out of his mouth is: ‘I’ve gotta disagree with you about that
> “shit sandwich” thing.’. And I… I mean, I was just like absolutely blown away
> that Phil Schiller, in the twenty-four hours after, like, a huge
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>WWDC</abbr> keynote, had gone to Daring Fireball and
> read my site. And then we had, we had a wonderful, it was absolutely
> phenomenal, like ten minute thing where we talked and, y’know, he told me how
> I was wrong, and y’know.

 [sand]: http://daringfireball.net/2007/06/wwdc_2007_keynote

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, well, that’s…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> But it blew me away, it blew me away. Senior vice president at
> <span class='organization'>Apple</span> read my thing about…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> That’s giant. For like, anybody, especially if you write stuff, there’s no
> greater thrill than having somebody that you know and admire go ‘I’m even
> aware you exist.’. But, like, for them to go ‘I enjoyed that thing you did’,
> like, somebody said hi outside a minute ago and ‘I like that one thing’, and,
> like, that made my day. That’s a connection. ’Cause, like, I did a thing, and
> I do this weird stuff that I can’t explain to my family, and I don’t
> understand how my daughter eats, but, like, somebody comes up, and goes ‘Hey,
> [truck spank][tspank]’, or goes, like, ‘Hey,
> [Hipster <abbr class='smallcaps'>PDA</abbr>][hpda]’, and I’m like, oh, man,
> that’s… Like, I’m not making this shit up, that’s awesome.

> And if I’d gone out there and tried to figure out, like, how to be somebody
> else that was already that person, right? Like, I really like
> [<span class='person'>Cory Doctorow</span>][cdoc], but we already… There’s
> this great line, <span class='person'>Ira Glass</span> does this wonderful
> series of videos — Ira Glass from <span class='radio'>This American
> Life</span> — and he has this great quote where he says, he says <ins>changes
> voice</ins> ‘The problem is a lot of people, they go out, and they wanna
> be’ — that’s my Ira Glass, or maybe it’s my <span class='person'>Alex
> Bloomberg</span>, but um — that’s funny to five people, but I’m glad you got
> it. That’s… see? duh. He goes ‘The thing is, people go out there, and they’re
> always trying to emulate the success of other people, right? And so you get
> on <abbr class='smallcaps'>TV</abbr>, and you try to pretend you’re <span
> class='person'>Ted Koppel</span>. But you know what? They’ve already got a
> Ted Koppel. They don’t need you.’ So y’know, like, your competition is
> somebody who had a unique opportunity a long time ago, and now you’re gonna
> try to, like, trace the shadow of that on a sidewalk and hope it’s a career?
> Right? It’s… we’ve got our Koppel, now who are you?

 [cdoc]: http://craphound.com/ "Cory Doctorow’s home page"
 [hpda]: http://www.43folders.com/2004/09/03/introducing-the-hipster-pda
 [tspank]: http://youlooknicetoday.com/episode/truck-spank

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> And our instincts, I think, serve us wrong; and I, we call it’s like a
> lizard brain thing. But, like, our instincts tell us that if you want to
> write something — I mean, and that is part of these assumptions that we’re
> making, is that if you want to write, and we say write because that’s what we
> do, but again, it could be photography; it could be, y’know, a series, just
> making, like, a short film a week; any kind of thing. But obviously the whole
> reason you’re publishing it is that you do want to find a readership, or
> watchership — what do you call the people who watch videos? I
> dunno — listenership for a podcast; but you wanna find an audience. And I
> mean it’s, y’know, who knows? Who knows what the drive is for that.

> But the irony is… the mismatch is that our instincts tell us that if you want
> to find an audience, you should try to find something that is like the things
> people are already enjoying.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Right. Like how many of you guys — oh, you’re probably not old enough to
> remember this. But, like, after <span class='film'>Star Wars</span> came out,
> between like 01978 and 01980, there was, like, an unbelievable crap of movies
> and <abbr class='smallcaps'>TV</abbr> shows that were just unbelievably bad,
> because they wanted to cash in on the <span class='film'>Star Wars</span>
> thing. And yeah, they probably made a little bit of dough, but apart from
> <span class='programme'>Battlestar Galactica</span> — and that’s the old one;
> don’t get mad, don’t write letters — but the, but, like, could you name a
> bunch, I’m sure some of you can; why am I even saying this.

> <ins>nerd voice</ins> ‘So, actually, <span class='programme'>Space Wars
> ’79</span> featured <span class='person'>Dan Blocker</span>, who had been on
> <span class='programme'>Bonanza</span>. He was the… so…’. But…

> Ted Koppel was Ted Koppel because a bunch of Americans got kidnapped, and
> Americans cared a lot about what happened to them. And so they started this
> little show, for a half hour, every night. Right?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right. It started, <span class='programme'>Nightline</span> started with
> the [Iranian hostage situation][irhost]. Forty-four Americans in Iran, and
> they weren’t gonna let ’em go.

 [irhost]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iran_hostage_crisis "Wikipedia article for Iran hostage crisis"

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> The country, like — you don’t remember this, ’cause you’re all, like,
> twenty, and with the <abbr class='smallcaps'>SMS</abbr> — but, like, America
> was gripped. This was a country that had not had its ass kicked in a pretty
> long time, and we were totally gobsmacked by what to do about ‘a bunch of
> people in the Middle East’ — that’s air quotes, if you’re listening in
> audio — what are we gonna do with these crazy people who took… America was
> gripped, right?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, ’cause I guess it was like a sense of impotence because they’ve got
> them, and we’re like ‘Give ’em back.’, and they’re like ‘No.’. And that’s
> it.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> That’s it. Sorry.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> But, so, what did
> <span class='organization'><abbr class='smallcaps'>ABC</abbr> News</span>
> have?
> <span class='organization'><abbr class='smallcaps'>ABC</abbr> News</span> had
> the <span class='person'>Peter Jennings</span> show that’s on at 7
> <ins><abbr class='smallcaps'>PM</abbr></ins> or 6:30
> <ins><abbr class='smallcaps'>PM</abbr></ins> or whatever, and it’s a half
> hour, and they have to cover everything in the world; everything that goes on
> in Washington, and everything that goes on worldwide, and there’s a bit on
> sports, and… So, y’know, there’s, like, ninety seconds every night for an
> update on the Iranian hostage situation.

> But it was this *thing* that people were obsessed about; Ted Koppel was
> completely obsessed about. And so he was like, ‘All right, why don’t we do a
> thirty minute show; what time is open? When can I get on?’ And they’re like,
> ‘Uh, 11:30 <ins><abbr class='smallcaps'>PM</abbr></ins>? 12
> <ins><abbr class='smallcaps'>AM</abbr></ins> maybe twelve?’

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Against <span class='person'>Johnny Carson</span>?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right. ‘You get on… we got nothing.’ They were showing, like, the million
> dollar movie at the time. And so they just invented a totally new show:
> thirty minutes, every night, on the exact same topic every night, which is:
> everything new about this Iranian hostage situation.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Right. And so, like, today, you go ‘Oh, you know what? I really admire Ted
> Koppel. I wanna be Ted Koppel.’ Well, you’re gonna need a couple things. The
> first one is you’re gonna need, like, a red wig, and then second you’re gonna
> need a time machine.

> Because the reason Ted Koppel is Ted Koppel is not so different from the
> reason <span class='person'>Michael Arrington</span> is Michael Arrington or
> John Gruber is John Gruber. Which is, you cannot recreate the context, the
> timing, the everything of a moment where something happened, right?

> I was saying this last night — who was I saying this to last night;
> <span class='person'>Jim Coudal</span> — I think, y’know, a lot of Americans
> don’t realize that in 01943, we didn’t know we were gonna win the
> <ins>Second World</ins> War. Right? If you’re twenty, you just assume that we
> always used to win wars. In 01943 — ask your grandparents — it was pretty
> freaky, man. People didn’t know what was gonna happen.

> We lose that, when we just try to, let’s say for example; I dunno, take any
> example of a site that you admire. And instead of just focusing on the voice,
> or just focusing on the topic. There’s no way to recreate somebody else’s
> success, and why would you try? Which is not a way to say I’m… and again, I
> think you have stuff to say about this, but I would say it’s not, I’m not
> saying <ins>don’t</ins> go out and, like, learn from somebody else’s
> playbook; I am in fact saying go do that. But there’s that
> [<span class='organization'>37signals</span> thing] not long ago that you
> linked to. It was, like, ‘What is it you’re copying?’, y’know? Are you
> copying the right thing, when you try to repurpose somebody’s theoretical
> success for what you wanna do?

 [37scopy]: http://www.37signals.com/svn/posts/1561-why-you-shouldnt-copy-us-or-anyone-else

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right. And so, and… how many people here have heard of the 37signals?
> Yeah. So it’s, they’ve got the Basecamp, which is their project management
> app. And they invented Ruby on Rails to power it, and you get all this stuff
> for free. And then after they got successful, there’s all these other web
> apps that have come out — and maybe it has nothing to do with project
> management, it’s not that people have tried to rip it off the app — but
> they’ll make another app that does something else, but it *looks* like a
> 37signals app. It’s just got all these little, like, visual cues that are
> very very distinct, and it’s theirs, and it’s…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> You can move the rows around, and it’s a clean design; y’know, it’s…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> And it’s like they’re copying the wrong thing. It’s like, it’s almost
> like, you see a <span class='organization'>Honda</span> Accord, and you
> decide, ‘Oh, that’s a nice car, I’ll make one like that’, and then you just
> sit there and look at it, and you just end up with, like, a
> <span lang='fr'>papier-mâché</span> car, and you’re just using wet tissue
> paper. There’s nothing to it; it’s just hollow. Whereas, the thing that’s
> worth copying is the attitude that they had at the outset; what made them do
> it. And project management meant things like Gantt charts, and…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Every project — and I was a project manager — and everything that was out
> there — no offense against any of the apps, but — it was like, assumed that
> making software was necessarily like making a bridge, instead of being a
> little more agile, and just having the stuff you need, y’know. And their
> approach, it’s the same thing as <span class='organization'>Google</span>. It
> would be like saying, ‘Oh, well, I’m gonna go create a white page with two
> buttons, and become the most successful company in the world.

> Or, like, and my rant — and I’m sorry, I’m not gonna shut up about this — I’m
> so tired of every social media douche going
> ‘<span class='organization'>Zappo’s</span> is on Twitter!’. And you’re like,
> ‘Yeah, they’re on Twitter; after putting millions of dollars into customer
> support.’ It’s like, getting an account on Twitter does not make you Zappo’s.
> Having the resources behind serving the shit out of your audience makes you
> Zappo’s. And it doesn’t happen overnight, with a login and an email that you
> click on a link. So anyway; not to go on a rant.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Have you ever read… ’cause you know,
> <span class='organization'>Comcast</span> [is on Twitter][cmst].

 [cmst]: http://twitter.com/comcastcares "comcastcares Twitter profile"

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Comcast, they’re in Philadelphia, too, right? Comcast @responses *very*
> entertaining.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> They've built, like, a Death Star; they’ve, there’s a new; it is now the
> tallest skyscraper in Philadelphia. It is, like, it is, like, the tower of
> Hell that cable bills built. But if you wanna —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> The only difference is they’re destroying the planet more slowly than the
> Death Star.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> If you ever wanna entertain yourself on `search.twitter.com`, just type in
> [`@comcast`][cmstsrch], and read the things that people say to Comcast. Once
> it became known that Comcast was paying somebody to monitor Twitter for
> mentions of Comcast, it did not turn Comcast into Zappo’s.

 [cmstsrch]: http://search.twitter.com/search?q=@comcast

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> They should just hire <span class='person'>Ryan King</span> to just have a
> bot that writes back and goes ‘Sorry!’. Y’know? That’s really all they need.
> ‘@<var>whoever just flamed me</var> Sorry!’. ‘Your bandwidth? Your bandwidth
> has been, uh… Yeah, sorry!’. ‘Why can’t I get torrents?’

> It is, it is… Y’know, I have this thing, again, everybody thinks I’m such a
> dick, because, like, I think social media’s more… I think it’s important
> enough to take seriously. I think that very much as to do with this. So
> people think ‘Oh, you’re so down on social media. Why are you such a jerk?’.
> And I’m like, ‘’Cause social media, when it’s really social media, is not
> about what you have to say; it’s having a tolerance for what people have to
> say about you.’ — which is so different from posting about your great run.
> Social media is when they say ‘You’re a jackass. Stop talking about your
> run.’ *That’s* social media. And that’s the conversation.

> And I think kind of what we’re saying is, y’know, you do have to be open;
> there does have to be a certain amount of tolerance that you have for every
> aspect of this. The biggest tolerance that you’ve gotta have — and I’m as
> thin-skinned as anybody; I don’t like people saying mean things about
> me — but, I think what we’re saying, in some ways, is, you need a
> tolerance — this is gonna sound so unhelpful — you need a tolerance for
> having no idea where your thing is going. Y’knoww? ’Cause if you have too
> much of an idea of what it is, like, you may be accidentally making the wrong
> thing. If you’re not responding to what’s really happening; if you’re just
> going, like, ‘My goal is this. I’m going to have this thing, and I will have
> this many followers, and there will be this many comments, and I will have a
> rich community.’ And instead of going and listening to what people say, and
> making the thing, and…

> It’s a real tightrope walk, because yeah, you do have to be arrogant enough
> to think that it matters to try at this stuff, and yeah, you do have to be
> arrogant enough to look at stats and see what kind of material people enjoy,
> but there’s all kinds of ways… we were talking about this earlier; I was
> like, ‘All this social media stuff is like a giant set of extremely sharp
> knives, where, like, they’re just knives, but you can use them for good or
> ill.’ Like, <abbr class='smallcaps'>SEO</abbr>?
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>SEO</abbr>’s fantastic, because it gives people
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>URL</abbr>s that make sense. But it does, y’know… it
> is bad if you’re trying to fool people into clicking things.

> But… I dunno, we should probably move on. How we doing on time? Oh, we’re
> doing great on time! We should slow it down, that’s terrific.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I think that the big irony is that there’s this old maxim, I dunno, it’s
> probably… I wish there were some kind of, like, thing where you could
> just…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Search the web?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right. That would… I tried to look for —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> <ins>nerd voice</ins> ‘So, what was that reference that you made in your
> earlier tweet? What was that?’

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> So it’s probably, I should probably know who to attribute it to, but maybe
> it’s not; maybe it’s something that’s been around forever. But there’s a
> saying that it’s great that we have freedom of the press in this country, but
> the only people who really have freedom of the press are those who can afford
> a printing press. And it’s totally true. I mean, it was, y’know. You could
> not reach — you could say what you wanted, but you could not reach a big
> crowd unless you had the money to reach them — and a television station costs
> gazillions of dollars, and printing newspapers, even in the old days,
> newspapers…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Even in the eighties, just making a zine, just going to
> <span class='organization'>Kinko’s</span> and making a zine, and having to,
> like, pay postage on that? It was extraordinary. And you’d still reach, like,
> a tiny fraction of people. Like, <span class='magazine'>Maximum R&R</span>,
> like, what was <span class='magazine'>Maximum R&R</span>’s greatest
> circulation? Like, y’know, going on newsprint… It’s like, today, everybody
> owns a little press.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Or look at Boing Boing. It was a zine, and I never even heard of it. But I
> mean, it was apparently very popular. But —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> It was about ukuleles, I think.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right, something like that. But, I mean, but then the Internet, it
> literally is the solution to that problem, where everybody can afford their
> own printing press, and can reach tremendous scale. I mean, a
> seven-dollar–a–month web hosting account will almost certainly saturate… you
> will be able to satisfy anybody who could even be vaguely interested in what
> you will say. It’s unbelievable. I mean, you could go to Tumblr, and Tumblr,
> what… it’s free, right?

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> It’s free. [<span class='person'>Marco <ins>Arment</ins></span>][marco]’s
> here. Shoutout for Marco. Anybody like Tumblr? Anybody like Tumblr? Marco’s
> here, give him a big hand.

> No, it’s totally true. And what’s funny is I started doing this stuff related
> to this web stuff in the mid-’90s, and I had to hand… I sat there with
> BBEdit, and Fetch, and had to, like, go… I mean, someday I’m gonna tell you
> guys about when I ran a giant conference site by outputting flat files out of
> Filemaker Pro with a script. That’s how you used to publish, if you were me
> and you didn’t understand Perl and Apache. Like, you had GoLive CyberStudio,
> y’know?

> But, like, so, I think it’s interesting; I still remember, like, the
> [<span class='person'>Peter Merholz</p>][peter]s of the world, like, having
> conversations about, well — or
> [<span class='person'>Rebecca Blood</span>][rebecca] talking about ‘Is this a
> blog? Or is that a blog? Like, what’s a blog?’ And I think now, I’m not even
> sure ‘blog’ is that great of a term anymore, to describe anything, ’cause it
> can mean, it could mean Gawker, or it could mean something on Blogspot, or it
> could mean, y’know, some incredibly awful corporate site that’s basically
> press releases with a permalink. And that’s really different from me going
> and hand-coding every page. So… it’s important to acknowledge that, like you
> say, it’s not that we want for tools; if anything — God, people hate me — I
> mean, one thing that bugs me is, like, if I don’t post on Twitter, I get 7%
> more followers per day. Because I’m *annoying*.

 [marco]: http://www.marco.org/ "Marco Arment’s home page"
 [peter]: http://www.peterme.com/ "Peter Merholz’s home page"
 [rebecca]: http://www.rebeccablood.net/ "Rebecca Blood’s home page"

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I think…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Because words are harder than buttons. Y’knoww? That’s the problem. It’s
> super-easy to post nowadays…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I think what’s funnier is that you know… you’ve actually looked and
> studied the statistics.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> No, I ran it in Numbers, I ran it in Numbers, ’cause I stopped tooting for
> several weeks, and it kept going up, like inexplicably. It’s like, what are
> you following? I’m not here! It’s like, and it wasn’t that funny to begin
> with. It’s just like…

> But I guess what I’m trying to say is… and I’m not trying to play the douche
> card, and say, like, you’ve gotta be any way. What I’m saying is that the
> tolerance that I’m encouraging you to have is, first of all, a tolerance
> that, if there’s something that you’re kind of into doing, that you’re pretty
> excited about, and think about a lot, y’know…

> Oh, so what was it we were talking about earlier? Like, how do you know that
> you should probably start a blog? Like, people keep telling you to *shut up*.
> Right? You're like, ‘Oh, whatever, Cowboys! I love the Cowboys! <ins>nonsense
> sound</ins> The Cowboys!’ Like, y’know what? If you love the Cowboys, like,
> why don’t you either gay-marry them, or start a blog. Right?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> But that’s…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> And how do you know? Do you go, ‘Oh, what’s a popular topic? Web 2.0.’. Or
> do you go, like, ‘I *really*…’, like, look at, like Perez Hilton. Like, I
> don’t *love* Perez Hilton’s site, but you so know Perez Hilton. I’m not a
> *giant* [TechCrunch][tc] reader, but you totally know TechCrunch when you see
> it, y’know? It’s, like, they’re obsessed with certain things.

 [tc]: http://www.techcrunch.com/

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right. I mean… with TechCrunch, and it’s… that’s one of those sites that
> because it has become so popular, and people talk about it being worth,
> y’know, $20 million or whatever. So then all the people who, going all the
> way back to the beginning, and who start with the idea of, ‘Okay, I wanna
> make a lot of dough on the Internet, with a website, so who should I copy?’.
> And then they look at TechCrunch, and then they copy the format, they copy
> the things that he writes about, but the way TechCrunch started was that
> <span class='person'>Mike Arrington</span> who, I agree, he’s a total
> dick.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> I didn’t say that. I did not say that. Hey, easy, easy!

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I didn’t —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> He’s got parents, be nice.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I didn’t mean it.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> You don’t think he’s a dick?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Oh, he’s a…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> He’s got some journalism kind of…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> No, I meant it, I meant it.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> He seems okay. He seems…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> No, he’s a dick. He’s a total dick.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Can I point out one thing in passing? A bunch of you — I’m sure people are
> gonna go toot about this now, or whatever, and John’s gonna have to go get in
> a fight — but can I just point out why I love John Gruber? One of the reasons
> is John Gruber so doesn’t care if you agree with him. Right? And like, yeah,
> whatever, the two of us are dicks, but like, y’know? I so admire people who
> don’t need me to love them. I have so much affection for somebody who really
> believes something and their belief and interest in something is way more
> important than me pretending to like them. I just have so much admiration for
> that. And to the extent that you can, and in the way that you need to for
> what you do, I think you have to do that too. You don’t have to be a jerk
> about it, but I think figuring out, it’s, like, okay to have a strong voice
> about something. Right?

> Look at, like, <span class='person'>Rush Limbaugh</span> and
> <span class='person'>Ann Coulter</span>. I am not persuaded that that many
> people agree 100% with Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter. But y’know what you’re
> getting. It’s like, it’s like watching pro wrestling, right? It’s like,
> they’re characters, and they have a voice. And personally I don’t find them
> very, like… I don’t find what they have to say very useful, but I *get* why
> people listen to them — or <span class='person'>Howard Stern</span>. I’m
> getting a little off-topic.

> But I guess what I’m saying is — we should move on to this next bit — the
> reason, where I’m going with that tolerance is just this idea of — we should
> get into the money part. Yeah?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> We should. Just one more thing before we go to the money part, is with the
> Arrington thing, is that Arrington…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> <ins>nerd voice</ins> ‘So, @everyone? @gruber says @techcrunch is
> @dick.’

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> It fits right in with our general thing where you find your
> obsession —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> ‘<abbr class='smallcaps'>RT</abbr> @gruber’…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> You find your obsession that no one else is writing about, and then you
> just pour yourself into it. And then here’s a guy who for, whatever reason,
> his obsession is venture capital funding for web startups in the <ins>San
> Francisco</ins> Bay Area. Which is a dirty, rotten, disgusting business, and
> it’s just vile. And so no wonder the site is dirty, rotten, disgusting, and
> vile — it’s a rotten, disgusting topic. But that’s why —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> He’s a lawyer. He’s a lawyer. Like, he knows what forms to fill out to
> ruin you.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right, and that…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Like, he’s probably got, he’s probably got like three interns that do
> nothing but fill out forms to ruin people all day long.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> No, I —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> He’s got chunks of guys like you in his poop.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I know that that’s why, I know that he’s a lawyer, and I know that that’s
> why he does that bullshit thing…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> He’s mad, like, he’ll… he’ll punch a bitch, I’m pretty sure.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I’m pretty sure I’m faster than Mike Arrington.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> You think so? He seems he might be a little logie.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I saw, I met him once, and I kinda, like, sized him up. He’s kinda
> doughy.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> I thought he… I thought, I thought he pretty nice. Like, and we’ve met a
> couple times… no, I’m being straight up. I don’t enjoy his site that much but
> I like, he seems like a nice enough guy.

> Anyway, what I was gonna say was — ’cause I want, I don’t want, really, I
> love John’s wife and his son a lot and I think we should move on — is that…
> that the final, for the end of act two, the final ambiguity that I would like
> you to think about is ambiguity about how this turns into a way for you to
> become rich on the Internet.

> Because it’s… contrary to what a lot of social media and blogging douches
> will tell you, it’s not easy. And a lot of people who act like they’re making
> an assload of money are just full of crap. It’s really… I mean, I’m not
> saying it’s a *hard job*, but I am saying do not assume that everybody who
> has ads on their site is making a killing, regardless of what they say the
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>CPM</abbr> is.

> Because the real opportunities of this stuff — this sounds like bullshit, but
> I am dead serious — the giant opportunities in this are not short-term gains…
> I’m giving you an opinion here, which I don’t usually do. But the real
> long-term gains for you are not pageviews and
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>CPM</abbr>s; it’s the opportunities that come out of
> being awesome at what you do. And if you think that’s
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>BS</abbr> then, like, I can’t help you.

> But I swear to God, if you look at the people around who seem like they were
> born on third base, yeah, it’s good timing; yeah, it’s hard work; but I think
> a lot of it is they had a tolerance for the ambiguity about where it was
> gonna go, they had a tolerance for the fact they were not gonna take
> short-term money that got in the way of what they really wanted to do. And
> the ancillary revenue streams and *opportunities* that come up as a result of
> making extremely-high-quality content…

> I mean, has there ever been a better time to make something awesome on the
> Internet? People don’t have money to buy things anymore. I don’t know if you
> know this; there’s no money. There’s… if you’re lucky they’re on dialup
> connections; maybe they’re at <span class='organization'>Barnes &
> Noble</span>; somebody wants to look at a computer at the Apple store and
> they wanna check their Facebook… People don’t have money. And they’re
> looking; they’re starved for content that speaks to them, that’s not a
> reality show. I’m gonna stop ranting, but I think that’s important.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> But there’s… it’s like those <span class='organization'>Mastercard</span>
> commercials, where there’s more than money can buy. And it’s, oh, terribly
> trite, and so obvious, and not interesting, and we’re all bright, clever
> people, and so we don’t really think about little canards that aren’t very
> interesting. But a lot of times they’re very true, they’re totally true; and
> there are things that money cannot buy that have tremendous value.

> And one of them — I mean, you’re <ins>Merlin</ins> practically making a
> career on it — is that attention, human attention, is valuable and it is
> limited. There is nothing you can possibly do give one person more attention
> in a day. You wake up; you have eighteen hours; and then you go to sleep. And
> in that time, you only have so much attention. It’s a limited resource. You
> can’t directly buy it. You can’t… there’s no dollar value on it.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Right. And it accretes over time.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> But it is incredibly valuable. And so that is the one thing that when you
> give stuff away in the Internet, it’s like, well then how am I gonna get paid
> for it? Well, you’re gonna get paid in attention. And I know you cannot pay
> your rent, I mean, I know…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> All too well.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Honestly, you cannot pay your rent with attention. I mean, I’ve tried. You
> can’t buy fast cars; there’s all sorts of stuff you can’t buy with it. But it
> has value, and you’d be surprised at what happens when it builds up.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> And there’s one other thing I just wanna underscore, and ’cause I’m done
> kissing Zeldman’s ass, I’m gonna kiss his <ins>John’s</ins> ass for a minute.
> There’s this one point that I really don’t wanna miss in all this ranting,
> which is the result of a confluence of voice — or, y’know, obsession — and
> what you have… Does that make sense? Do you follow what I’m saying?

> Like, you’ve got something that you care a lot about, and you’re obsessed
> about — it’s almost like an intellectual fetish. And then you’ve 
> got something that’s your angle on that. And to me, the more you zero in on
> both of those things — get crazy specific about the thing… Don’t just, don’t
> have a blog about <span class='film'>Star Wars</span>; have a blog about
> Jawas. Or, like, this one Jawa that’s just in the scene for a minute. Like,
> it’s gonna be so much easier for you to dominate, first of all; you’re gonna
> become the go-to guy for that one Jawa, right? And what does that mean?

> Well, when something happens in the world of Apple, as is so often the case,
> do I go to Google News? Do I go to — actually, David Pogue’s pretty
> great — but, no, I go to Daring Fireball. Because John not only tells me that
> something happened, he tells me — he tells me what’s happened, in a very
> terse kind of well-edited way, with his little <span class='newspaper'>New
> York Times</span> style guide that he’s so in love with — he tells me what
> happened; he tells me what it means; and then he tells me what he thinks
> about it. And how many people do you know who are capable of all three of
> those? Well, I’ll tell you what. On the Internet, there’s a ton of people
> that will tell you that something happened. Mostly they’re gonna, like, link
> from somebody else, who told *them* that it happened.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> When I wanna know, when I have, like, a collection of index cards, and I
> wanna know the best way to paperclip them together…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> So angry. So angry right now.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> … you know, like in a… some sort of official way…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Ha-ha.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> … what model paper clip…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Stanley Kubrick, ha-ha. No, I just wanna be clear, I admire you, but I do
> not like you.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> We're done.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Oh, is that blinking? Is it blinking to leave? … I think I just had a
> stroke. Am I here? Are you guys… it’s like that video for ‘One’; are you sure
> you guys are really here? It’s a Metallica song.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> You did a thing. I wanna say, I have this printed out, I gotta read this.
> We were…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> <ins>nerd voice</ins> ‘So…’

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> … at the final stages of planning this.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Last month.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I don’t even know what you drove you to forward this to me, but… Somebody
> just out of the blue wrote to you and it was like a young kid, and he was
> like, twenty-two, and he was like ‘I love your site. I wanna do something
> similar like this, and I care about blah blah blah. What are your advices to
> me as a young blogger who wants to take it seriously?’

> And here’s what you wrote; I’m gonna read this. And this is the greatest
> thing, I advise everybody who ever wants to speak on a thing like this: do a
> co-thing, ’cause then it’s, like, complete liberty to just steal anything
> that the other person has ever written.

> 1. Give away more stuff than you think you should, and make it easy for
> people to get.
> 2. Focus on diverse secondary revenue streams, and always have your eyes open
> for new and replacement ones.
> 3. Don’t do stuff that seems profitable, but potentially messes up the reason
> people like you.

> And that… in three items, that is so exactly what I think is the right way to
> do this, in a way that you will be surprised at the opportunities they
> present yourself.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Thanks. I hope it helped. And the thing is, again, it’s just so important to
> underscore that, like, I’m not just sandbagging. Like, I don’t think I do all
> this stuff great all the time, but here’s the thing: there’s very little to
> lose at first, when you start doing this stuff. ’Cause yeah, you’re doing it
> in public, but you also have time to figure out what it is that you’re doing.

> And in fact, there’s a certain obligation you have to constantly re-figure
> out what you’re doing. Right? Because it’s easy enough to figure out how to
> do one thing once, but to have a long live career in this stuff you’ve gotta
> figure out how to do it over and over and over. And I just think these are
> patterns that make sense. The ‘giving away stuff’, this is where, let’s be
> honest, this is where we’re so much smarter than corporate America. Let’s be
> honest.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> It’s the opportunity. I mean, we’re the mammal —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Giant.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> It’s mammals versus dinosaurs.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> It is. It is. It’s like, how many ways can I, like, figure out how to make
> this hard for you to do, and then not make money out of it? And it’s
> mind-blowing to me, when I’m like, y’know, how about a world where you decide
> that you’re selling ideas, rather than plastic or paper? Yeah, y’know what?
> If you have enough great ideas — that people steal, whatever that
> means — well, if you’ve got enough great ideas, then people will wanna buy
> your paper and plastic. But if you start out by going ‘I’m a merchant of
> paper’, or ‘a merchant of plastic’, nobody hears that you sell paper and goes
> ‘Oh, that’s for me.’. Right? And so to me, you go, like, ‘Damn right it’s
> free!’.

> I said this recently at this panel in Atlanta, but… in 02007 I did a talk at
> Google. I went and I showed up with a computer and I talked. And I talked
> about email, to some people who really needed to hear about it. You were
> there, [<span class='person'>Greg Veen</span>][veen] was there — hi, Greg.
> And I said, here’s the stuff you should do with email and it’s this thing I
> do called [Inbox Zero][izero]. And the last time I —

 [izero]: http://www.43folders.com/izero
 [veen]: http://www.veen.com/greg/ "Greg Veen’s home page"

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Service mark, Merlin Mann.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Service mark. I did actually get a service mark, yeah. Hired Arrington. The…
> sorry, just kidding Mike, don’t kill me. I love my daughter.

> I did that… anyway, I’m not trying go ‘yay me’, but, like, I went in there
> that day just saying ‘Okay, this is cool. I’m gonna hang out with Veen, and,
> like, this’ll be fun.’. And the last time I checked on Google Video… people
> didn’t watch the whole thing, but, like, it had started to load at least
> 400,000 times. And now people say ‘Hey, come tell this to my company.’.
> Right? Like… And if I had, just like I say, like if I had gone ‘No, you’ve
> gotta pay a nickel to watch me talk about email on the Internet.’, would you
> have done it?

> Like… some of you know Inbox Zero, right? Some of you have heard it or seen
> it, like, or are sick of hearing about it? But, like, you know it? And why do
> you know it? You know it because it was made embeddable, and anybody could
> go… What does embedding a video on your website mean? I mean, sometimes
> you’re making fun of stuff, but most of the time when you embed something,
> you’re saying ‘This is something I relate to.’. And if you keep that sealed
> in a little jar, and then make people pay just to see the jar, let alone
> what’s inside of it, that’s mind-boggling to me.

> You, at one time — I was giving you shit about this — at one time, you had a
> membership model where if you wanted the full
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>RSS</abbr> feed, you had to be a member.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right, I was…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Was that easy to maintain?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Well, no. And the craziest thing about it is — how many people here use the
> Google Reader? Yeah, look at all those hands.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Single biggest source of traffic.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right. Google Reader is huge, and everybody Google Reader. Here’s the thing
> that was so fucked up about about my ‘You have to pay to get the
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>RSS</abbr> feeds.’: it was not, like, a
> supply-and-demand problem. I did have plenty of readers who were like, ‘I am
> happy to pay.’. And my idea, my thinking was, ‘I might wanna put ads on a
> website, <ins>but</ins> ads in <abbr class='smallcaps'>RSS</abbr>, I dunno if
> that’s gonna work out, so I can’t just put everything in there for free. I’ll
> charge twenty bucks a year.’.

> Here’s the thing: the feeds didn’t even work with Google Reader, ’cause
> Google Reader doesn’t do, like… I had authentication to, you get, like, a
> username and password. So the single most popular reader didn’t even work
> with them. In hindsight, it’s like, ‘Oh my God’, I mean, I needed a smack.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> But at the time, ’cause right, you guys have done this — some of you are
> entrepreneurs and business people and people who try to make money on
> things — your first thought is, like, this panicy lizard-like, again,
> lizard-brained idea of, like, ‘Ah! How do I make a little money of of this?’

> And you end up, it’s almost like going to
> <span class='organization'>Safeway</span>, and if Safeway is gonna give you a
> free sample, but they’re gonna put way too much salt on it, ’cause you’re a
> deadbeat, y’know? It’s like if you don’t give stuff away and let people
> figure out why you’re awesome, why would they ever be interested in anything
> that you do? And if you don’t have the confidence to go, like, ‘My ideas, and
> the things that I have to say are so valuable that, like, I’m not worried
> that I’ll run out of them. I’m not worried that there’s any scarcity to what
> I have to say about this.’ So yeah, people scrape my
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>RSS</abbr> feed hundreds of times a day. But that’s
> not me; I’m not my <abbr class='smallcaps'>RSS</abbr> feed. I’m the ideas
> that went into the <abbr class='smallcaps'>RSS</abbr> feed.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> So I think one of the things that is so frustrating, for me, to watch people
> who just don’t seem to be taking advantage. I mean, it’s, again, so trite,
> but the Internet is awesome. It is totally fuckin’ awesome. You can do
> anything. And the thing that is so amazing is that it’s not just —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Write that down, maybe Twitter that.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, credit to me.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> <ins>nerd voice</ins> ‘<abbr class='smallcaps'>RT</abbr> @gruber’…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> — is that it’s not just that we all have a printing press now, and now we can
> do the same thing that big media companies with big printing presses and
> Teamsters and trucks that they can deliver their stuff can do; it’s that we
> can actually do it *better*, we can do it in ways that actually make people
> happier. It’ll make people happier to read stuff on my website or your
> website, where it’s just not even, it’s not all crapped up, and it’s, it’s
> just honest and it’s plain written, and you can just have it, or…
> <span class='person'>Jonathan Coulton</span>, you can just go to [his
> website][joco] and the music is just <abbr class='smallcaps'>MPEG</abbr>-3s,
> and you just, y’know, give him some money, and just download some stuff.

 [joco]: http://www.jonathancoulton.com/ "Jonathan Coulton’s home page"

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, ‘If you wanna put it in a movie, fine; give me credit and put it in
> there.’

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Right. Or, y’know, like, <abbr class='smallcaps'>RSS</abbr>? It’s so amazing
> to me that, like — we should get along on this next point; we’ve got ten
> minutes — but this whole thing of, like, ‘I need you to do it this way, or
> I’ll be sad.’. Y’know, it’s like, y’know what? I don’t care, if you… Print
> it out. Like, oh my God, I’m so glad you’re even a little bit interested in
> this. Put it on Kindle — thank you, Marco. Do whatever you wanna do with it.
> Like, y’know? But do something with it.

> And, like, it’s hilarious to me, especially, when people are like, y’know,
> they’ve got this very small amount — it’s not funny to me that they aren’t
> successful, but it’s funny to me that people get so torqued up about all this
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>IP</abbr> stuff when nobody cares what they’re doing.
> And you look at the people who the confidence to go ‘I’m a giant,
> successful…’ — like Jonathan. Jonathan’s incredibly, Jonathan Coulton is
> incredibly successful precisely because he’s given it all away. So, this is a
> really douchey one, so let’s do this fast.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> I said this at this public media conference, and I really believe this: don’t
> become too obsessed with the thing you’re determined to make money on. And
> for most folks, that’s ‘I wrote something and now I need to make this much
> money on it.’. And if you’ve got a pro blog, and you’re paying people to do
> multiple posts a day, or whatever, you need that kind of
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>ROI</abbr>. Your Excel has to line up. But if you’re
> a personal publishing person, I think it’s really valuable to say ‘I’m gonna
> keep my ears open. Maybe…’. And you know, you need to figure out what you can
> live with. Like, is an <span class='organization'>Amazon</span> store okay?
> Is selling links okay? What am I gonna do, right?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Well, and —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Am I gonna have, like, a little store where you can [buy a camera][mannazs]?

 [mannazs]: http://www.merlinmann.com/amazon/ "‘The Merlin Mann Amazon Store’"

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> And stuff that didn’t work starts to work. Amazon stuff never made me more
> than, like, I dunno; $10 a month — and then all the sudden it started making
> me real money. I mean, I dunno what I did differently, but then, y’know…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> And again, you’ve got… so you can make a boatload of money on Amazon, but you
> also have to weigh the extent to which people go ‘You’re being kind of a dick
> with the Amazon links.’.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> And you have to listen to when people are saying ‘enough already’. Right? And
> what’s the last one? Oh, that one, yeah. You wanna do this one?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, this is a good one.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, ’cause this is you, dude; number three is you. This is all you.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Don’t do stuff that seems profitable, but potentially messes up the reason
> people like you… That’s you too. I mean…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Not really. No, I, God, I’ve done so many dumb things. I still do so many
> stupid things, and it’s like, it takes me a while to figure it out — I’m
> having a cookie, I hope you don’t mind. That was a good cookie.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> But that’s like crummy text links, and…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah. I sold text links on my site for a while, and I didn’t feel good about
> it. It made, like, pretty good dough, and I… sometimes now, just quick
> sidenote, like, I still kinda can’t believe people do that, just because,
> even if you don’t care about breaking Google, it’s just kinda surprising,
> but, like, I did a thing where — I do a lotta my reading where I’ll throw
> stuff into [Evernote][enote] to read later, and I’ll do that, like, I’ll
> strip out all the <abbr class='smallcaps'>CSS</abbr> and just throw it in
> Evernote — and there was a site, somebody who'd written for
> [<span class='person'>Kevin Kelly</span>][kk], I went and visited
> [Cool Tools][ctools], I went and visited his page, in plain text, or in,
> y’know, unstyled? It was totally, like, all poker and Viagra links at the top
> of the page.

> And so, like, this guy, who like — and I’m not trying to call the guy out;
> I’m not trying to, like, shame him, ’cause that’s his decision — but what did
> his decision mean? His decision meant that for me I went ‘Wow, I’m not sure
> I’m gonna read the rest of this.’. ’Cause, like, that’s not… eh, I dunno, for
> where I am in my life right now, that’s kinda not cool. And so, like, I
> dunno.

> And again, I’m not trying to shame him, but I am saying — I know you do shit
> like this all the time. I know that there’s all kinds of people that you just
> won’t even link to because they’re, they’ve got the [Kubrick theme][ktheme]
> running, and they haven’t even tried.

> But y’know, do you know what I’m saying, that you go somewhere, and you’re
> just like, wow, there’s just too many ads on this page, or there’s something.
> And you have to figure out for the folks you’re trying to reach, how do you
> find the balance of making a little bit of dough, but still not crushing the
> bunny, but not having the person who might give you a hundred thousand
> dollars visit the site and go ‘Wow, this guy sure is interested in poker and
> Viagra.’.

 [ctools]: http://www.kk.org/cooltools
 [enote]: http://evernote.com/
 [kk]: http://kk.org/ "Kevin Kelly’s home page"
 [ktheme]: http://binarybonsai.com/wordpress/kubrick/

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Well, I’ll give you an example that I really hate, and you have to be careful
> about, it is with sites that do, like, a lot of, like, ten links a day about
> Mac news, and they will find something interesting, and instead of just
> sending you there to read it, they will do their best to summarize it. And
> sometimes the summaries — the ones that I call out; I have called out a
> couple over the times — where their summary is longer than the thing that
> they were linking to originally.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> And then the link’s after the jump.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right, and then the link is after the jump. And the whole point, of course,
> is to just sort of steal the idea and not even send you there. And of course
> it *seems* profitable —  because it is, you’re getting the pageviews for it,
> and then you’re trying to get other people to link to you instead of the
> original site — but in the long run, I think it’s terrible, because I think
> readers know, I think readers eventually find out, they’ll notice, ‘Hey, that
> wasn’t even theirs.’, and then your credibility is gone.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> We should start kinda wrapping up. We only have time for a couple questions.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Or one more, one quick more, is the pagination thing. And that is something —

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Oh, dude, the pagination thing.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Right.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Wow, that’s awesome.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I mean, I [Twittered this][pagetweet] last week, so this might be a repeat
> for some of you, but I said…

 [pagetweet]: http://twitter.com/gruber/status/1306940181

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> This is good.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> ‘I think I’m developing a form of dyslexia. Every time I see “next page”, I
> think it says “stop reading and close this tab”.’ And the worst part is, if
> you talk to work at real, real sites — like real newspapers, real magazines;
> not shitbag sites; like, good sites — they know, they have the stats, they
> know that almost everybody stops reading an article when they get to the
> first ‘click here to go to the next page’. They *know* that they do it. And
> they do it *anyway*, because they get, like, a half of a penny for everybody
> who does click.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Right. So, that last <ins>koan thing?</ins>, the corrupting influence of
> choosing a business model that doesn’t support the way you like to roll. So
> if the <abbr class='smallcaps'>CPM</abbr> model ends up corrupting the way
> that you wanna treat your audience, then you have to be circumspect about
> that.

> We should probably wrap up, but just a quick, I think one thing, John, we
> didn’t talk about this, when we were talking earlier, but, like, something we
> talked about initially was talking about the kind of continuum idea. You
> remember that? And just this idea of, like, this is not, yeah, we’ve got a
> strong opinion, you should have a strong opinion too. But ultimately a lot of
> this stuff is just about iterative decision-making. Like, coming out of the
> box, always trying to work really hard to do something good is just a good
> idea, but then as you evolve, and as what you make evolves, I think also, I
> dunno, just being open to kind of, like, I dunno… am I making any sense? Does
> that make any sense at all? No? Really?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, it’s all right.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, it’s okay. It does matter, though. It does matter. And it matters to
> connect the people that you really admire and respect. And so I think
> figuring out how to do that in a way that gives you what you need is just
> about making those decisions. And there’s nothing that’s absolutely wrong — I
> mean, except for a few things — always, always, [always be linking][abc]. And
> there’s a few things I think, but… generally, like, whatever you decide to
> do, as long as that supports what you wanna do, just try really hard at it.
> What do you wanna close with? Any advice?

 [abc]: http://youtube.com/watch?v=TROhlThs9qY "‘Always Be Closing’ speech from Glengarry Glen Ross"

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> No, I think that’s it: try really hard.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Anybody question? One question, one question. Anybody question? Somebody
> go to the mic. Hey, it’s [Remiel][remiel]!

 [remiel]: http://remiel.info/

* * *

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Hey, uh, hi, it’s me, Merlin, back here at the podcast. I know that right
> now it’s really hard to hear, but that’s our friend Gabe — who’s Remiel on
> Twitter — and he’s really cool. And right now, he is asking us a question
> about how we use Twitter, and then we answer it.

* * *

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I kinda use Twitter as the, like… All right, you could say, if Daring
> Fireball is anal-retentive, it’s like the little punctured hole in the back
> where all the shit just flies, ’cause I don’t care. And it’s, it’s, y’know…
> I’ll spend six weeks posting nothing but stuff about
> <span class='person'>Sarah Palin</span> and her family.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Oh, that was a rough time.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Oh, that was very popular.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> You were one of the many I had to take a little break from.

?. Merlin, you’re on a different boat. <ins>?</ins> thoughts about it.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, I mean, that’s what’s interesting about Twitter.
> <span class='person'>Michael Lopp</span>, you’re the one who said this, I
> think: what’s great about Twitter is you only really have to see things you
> don’t like if you wanna see things you don’t like. If you just follow the
> people you really like, that’s the way to roll. Twitter for me is 140
> characters of id, and I’ll own that.

> But, like, seriously, go out and have fun, but make something really kick
> ass, and, like, try to really impress the people that you love. We have
> been…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> John Gruber

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> … and Merlin Mann.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Thank you for coming.

* * *

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> And there we were. Sorry, that was a long hour, but I… Did you like that
> John? That turned out pretty good, don’t you think?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I think it turned out great. I usually hate my speaking appearances in
> hindsight. I listen to them or watch them, and it never turns out at all like
> I imagined. And this one, for whatever reason, it seemed like we really hit
> it.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> It coulda gone worse. I feel the same way for me; it’s like taking a
> bandage away, and having an idea that there’s gonna be a gunshot wound
> underneath it. And then just kinda poking at it, and discovering it really
> does hurt a lot. That’s, y’know. Pretty much everything I’ve ever done that’s
> how I felt.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, or maybe you go in to have, like, some cosmetic surgery, and you
> think you’re gonna get, like, a <span class='person'>Brad Pitt</span>, and
> you take off the bandage, and it’s <span class='person'>Andy Dick</span>.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, well, there’s a little dick under most of my bandages. We should go,
> but listen, I wanna say special thanks to everybody who came out. To be
> honest, y’know, all the folks who said nice stuff, it’s been really cool. And
> I wanna especially thank our pal Dave Gray, did some wonderful drawings while
> John and I were talking, and on [the post that’s associated with this podcast
> episode][mfollow] you will see some of those, and I will point you to Dave’s
> site; I encourage you to check out his work. Anybody you wanna acknowledge,
> John?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah. We should thank Hugh Forrest from South by Southwest. I mean, the
> guy does a fantastic job. And he’s everywhere. I mean…

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> He’s tall. He’s very <ins>calm?</ins>, and he’s tall. It’s
> inexplicable.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> I almost suspect it’s one of those gags, where maybe he’s like a twin, and
> there’s two of them, and they never, they make it seem like it’s one guy?
> Because he’s everywhere. And whenever you actually, like, need help, he’s
> right there, and helps you out. So thanks to Hugh.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Totally. Oh, and did you wanna thank your pal Arrington? Did you wanna
> say…

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Oh, yeah, thanks to Mike Arrington for having the grace to
> <ins>?</ins>

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> And you haven’t had any problems? You haven’t found any, like, dead cats
> on your doorstep or anything?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> No. You know what’s funny though? You brought that up in the thing, and I
> got confused with that part. You said Mike Arrington, and I kinda went off; I
> thought we were talking about <span class='person'>Nick Denton</span>.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> You confused Michael Arrington and Nick Denton?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, I get my dirtbags confused.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> Ooh, you know, they’ve both got pretty big heads; that Denton guy, he’s
> got a gourd on him.

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah, it’s sorta like a, yeah, it’s like a
> <span class='person'>Humphrey Bogart</span>-type thing. You know, Humphrey
> Bogart’s head was about four feet tall.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> And he had very very small feet. Did you know that?

> <cite><abbr>JG:</abbr></cite>
> Yeah; very small feet and an enormous head. And it made him look fantastic
> in black & white.

> <cite><abbr>MM:</abbr></cite>
> He cried at his own wedding. I always found that very moving, y’know.
> That’s a guy who really cared. Smoked a little too much, but a good man.

> All right John; well, if anything happens, if you need a witness or
> anything, let us know. ’Cause now you got two powerful blog guys with giant
> heads after you. So watch your ass. Yeah.

> All right, well listen, thanks for a lot everybody, and many thanks to
> John; please go to [his site, Daring Fireball dot net][df], if you’re not
> going there already; it’s a tremendous lot of fun.

> This was super-fun, I think, for both of us to do. So thank you very much;
> this is [43folders][43f]; until next time, I’ll see you in cyberspace.
