PERMALINK: /post/161040058/tasteful
PUBLISHED: Aug 12th, 02009 12:42am
TAGS: life, music, philayoub, schoolbuswindowpaperheart

Four years ago when I was in college I’d regularly play the radio while driving
to and from campus, primarily listening to oldies (which had already shifted to
mean ’70s and ’80s rock) or the local <abbr class='smallcaps'>NPR</abbr>
affiliate. When I liked a song that had played, I’d make a note of the defining
lyrics, a necessity as <abbr class='smallcaps'>DJ</abbr>s seldom report track
titles and my memory is rather poor. Note-taking was accomplished by creating a
new <abbr class='smallcaps'>SMS</abbr> message on my phone, then saving it in
the sent box — something I really doubt the programmers had intended, but it
worked. Admittedly, working a T9 keyboard while trying to pay attention to the
radio and the road is not an especially safe thing to do, but it worked out
pretty well for my needs.

One of the notes-to-self that I made was for
<span class='person'>Phil Ayoub</span>’s
<span class='album'>Schoolbus Window Paper Heart</span>; I must have
encountered it in a review by <span class='person'>George Graham</span>. Like
all such notes, this ended up in a text file that collected the music I didn’t
have but wanted. This file has gradually shrunk in the years since (as I’ve
remembered to update it), but despite an occasional look, I was never able to
track down a copy of Ayoub’s album. Over time I largely gave up hope, but a few
months ago I suddenly found a copy. There was some difficulty in getting it,
but today I finally played it, and —

Why was this album so compelling to the person I was? It could have been
released ten years earlier and fit right in with all the boring alternative
stuff that was popular at the time. The only track I’d care to hear again is
the *final* track, ‘4th District Court of Bristol Country’, which has the kind
of keyboard hook I’m such a sucker for (<span lang='la'>eg</span> my love for
<span class='band'>Grandaddy</span>’s
<span class='album'>The Sophtware Slump</span>). I struggle to see what could
have made me care enough to make it one of my notes.

Was I really such a different person that I found this sort of thing enjoyable?
I know I’ve changed in the past four years, and my tastes have shifted a good
deal, but it seems like a rather more severe change than I’d been aware of.
