BOOKMARK: http://delicious.com/url/401326d9557eac9d0d184be759488d23
KEYWORDS: creativity, intellectualproperty, jonathanlethem, thought
LICENSE: CC:BY-SA
LINK: http://harpers.org/archive/2007/02/0081387
PERMALINK: http://ratafia.info/post/72724992/the-ecstasy-of-influence-a-plagiarism
PUBLISHED: 02009-01-23T23:27:00-0500
TITLE: ‘The ecstasy of influence: A plagiarism’
UPDATED: 02009-01-23T23:27:00-0500
--
Although I’d ordinarily include some excerpts, it would be difficult to select
any particular sections as more worthy of reproduction. The article is lengthy,
but well worth the time it takes to read.

Cleverly, the article borrows heavily from a wide variety of sources,
reinforcing (with deliberate exaggeration) its premise that much or all of what
we do and make is really an echo of those who have gone before. In this
perspective, copyright is best viewed as
<span class='person'>Thomas Jefferson</span> saw it — a chance to recover one’s
investment in creative works.

## A digression regarding creativity

As the content on this site indicates, much of what I want to share with the
world is my perspective on the ideas and works of others. Maybe I’m less
important because I don’t offer much innovation, but maybe I’m more important
because I offer a roadmap to places you’re not likely to visit. I gravitate
toward people who can show me things I never knew I’d be interested in.

I think we all sit somewhere between the extremes of Production and
Consumption. In order to entirely avoid being a producer, you’d need to be a
hermit, entirely cut off from civilization and leaving no way for anybody to
know you’d lived. But it’s equally impossible to avoid being a pure consumer,
because we’re always taking in new information, new perspectives and ideas that
will change our view on life and affect the things we make.

As with most things, it’s a continuum — authors and artists and musicians and
filmmakers sitting on the producer side; most everyone else towards the side of
consumption. We can move around if we want, but for most it’s easier to be
passive than creative. And that’s okay, because a lot of what keeps society
running doesn’t require or necessarily allow for creativity. Perhaps we’d be
happier in a world where that was reversed, but we get by.

And so I think people like me are also important. We’re the ones who try to
make up the middle of the gradient, to link the consumers and producers. We do
a little bit of each; maybe not great at either, but good at the mix.

So really, I see it all as a balance — art wants an audience, the audience
wants art, and the go-betweeners want to connect the two. Although we may scorn
each other at times, we’re all much poorer without each other.
