PERMALINK: /post/94002123/how-can-i-get-vendor-specific-css-properties-from-the
PUBLISHED: Apr 7th, 02009 9:11pm
TAGS: coding, css, javascript, pagering

When I first released [pagering][pring], I [wrote][prentry]:

> It’s not bug free — the ‘pages’ don’t all appear at the same spot, and so
> on — but it’s written, and it works. Now I can move on to making it better.

 [prentry]: http://ratafia.info/post/90069689/pagering
 [pring]: http://github.com/stilist/pagering/
 
Today I decided to work on making it better, and quickly figured out why the
‘pages’ render inconsistently. It turns out there are three variables involved:

1. the width of the ‘paged’ element in the <abbr class='smallcaps'>CSS</abbr>
box model;
1. the padding of the element that holds the paged element; and
1. the <abbr class='smallcaps'>CSS</abbr>3 `column-gap` of the paged element.

I was only accounting for the first one. The second was easy to add, but the
third is proving quite difficult. Currently, `column-gap` has only experimental
implementations (in the WebKit and Gecko engines), so I can’t simply test
against `column-gap`; I also have to check `-webkit-column-gap` and
`-moz-column-gap`.

Fortunately, this much works — I can test against `undefined` and get a result
from the different browsers. Unfortunately, that result is *always* a null
string. This means that it doesn’t matter whether I’ve specified something like
`-webkit-column-gap: 2em`; I’ll always get the same unhelpful answer. Here’s
the code I’m using:

    if (text.style.columnGap !== undefined) {
      columnGap = text.style.columnGap;
    } else if (text.style.webkitColumnGap !== undefined) {
      columnGap = text.style.webkitColumnGap;
    } else if (text.style.MozColumnGap !== undefined) {
      columnGap = text.style.MozColumnGap;
    }

    alert(columnGap.length); // always 0

Without knowing the column gap, I can’t entirely fix the rendering problem.

This brings us back to the entry’s title: how can I get vendor-specific
<abbr class='smallcaps'>CSS</abbr> properties from the
<abbr class='smallcaps'>DOM</abbr>? Have I overlooked something simple?

**Update:** I found a solution! Read about it [here][pre3].

 [pre3]: http://ratafia.info/post/94280368/follow-up-on-vendor-specific-css-and-the-dom
