PERMALINK: /post/79168300/the-decline-of-books
PUBLISHED: Feb 17th, 02009 4:52pm
TAGS: books, reading, ursulaleguin

In an 02008 article for <span class='magazine'>Harper’s</span>,
<span class='person'>Ursula Le Guin</span> [argues][ulgh] that book sales are
declining because publishing corporations see volume as the only way to
maintain business growth. She further argues that despite the hand-wringing of
those who mourn the death of books, reading was only a significant part of life
for a relatively brief span of history.

 [ulgh]: http://www.harpers.org/archive/2008/02/0081907 "Ursula Le Guin: ‘Staying awake: Notes on the alleged decline of reading’"

> I see a high point of reading in the United States from around
> <ins>0</ins>1850 to about <ins>0</ins>1950 — call it the century of the
> book — the high point from which the doomsayers see us declining. As the
> public school came to be considered fundamental to democracy, and as
> libraries went public and flourished, reading was assumed to be something we
> shared in common. Teaching from first grade up centered on “English,” not
> only because immigrants wanted their children fluent in it but because
> literature — fiction, scientific works, history, poetry — was a major form of
> social currency.

> …

> Books are social vectors, but publishers have been slow to see it. They
> barely even noticed book clubs until <span class='person'>Oprah
> <ins>Winfrey</ins></span> goosed them. But then the stupidity of the
> contemporary, corporation-owned publishing company is fathomless: they think
> they can sell books as commodities.

> …

> In those departments, beloved by the <abbr class='smallcaps'>CEO</abbr>s, a
> “good book” means a high gross and a “good writer” is one whose next book can
> be guaranteed to sell better than the last one. That there are no such
> writers is of no matter to the corporationeers, who don’t comprehend fiction
> even if they run their lives by it. Their interest in books is self-interest,
> the profit that can be made out of them — or occasionally, for the top
> executives, the Murdochs and other Merdles, the political power they can
> wield through them; but that is merely self-interest again, personal profit.

Like most commentators, however, she does attack alternative media as being
‘brain-numbing’ or ‘gross’, and says blogs have not ‘develop<ins>ed an</ins>
aesthetic form’. While these views are true in various degrees, they are, in my
opinion, largely irrelevant to the future of the book. Books are failing
because [they’re inefficient][rcbk].

 [rcbk]: http://ratafia.info/post/72804685/digital-goods-and-analog-books

But we must consider [what will come after][rcwj]. If we grant that books are
dying and that reading on the web isn’t as good, what can we do?

 [rcwj]: http://ratafia.info/post/74443947/the-web-and-journalism

[<span class='person'>Mandy Brown</span>][mb] [posits][mbala] that poor design
is a major factor in why reading on the web is an unsatisfying experience:

 [mb]: http://aworkinglibrary.com/ "Mandy Brown’s homepage"
 [mbala]: http://alistapart.com/articles/indefenseofreaders "‘In Defense of Readers’"

> Despite the ubiquity of reading on the web, readers remain a neglected
> audience. Much of our talk about web design revolves around a sense of
> movement: users are thought to be finding, searching, skimming, looking. We
> measure how frequently they click but not how long they stay on the page. We
> concern ourselves with their travel and participation — how they move from
> page to page, who they talk to when they get there — but forget the needs of
> those whose purpose is to be still. Readers flourish when they have
> space — some distance from the hubbub of the crowds — and as web designers,
> there is yet much we can do to help them carve out that space.

Is the solution really as simple as better design? Well, no; there is some
[cultural shift][ncat] — but [people can be fooled into reading][jsat]. There’s
still hope for the web to keep us reading large quantities of text.

 [jsat]: http://arstechnica.com/gadgets/news/2009/02/the-once-and-future-e-book.ars "John Siracusa: ‘The once and future e-book: reading in the digital age"
 [ncat]: http://www.theatlantic.com/doc/print/200807/google "Nicholas Carr: ‘Is Google Making Us Stupid?’"

The web may never reach the same level as books, but maybe it doesn’t have to.
