PERMALINK: /post/60171966/dripping-clock-widget-released
PUBLISHED: Nov 17th, 2008 4:03pm
TAGS: javascript

Last week I got the idea for a cool clock widget based on the pie-chat–style
loading graphics that are sometimes used for various Flash sites.
<abbr class="smallcaps" title="Scalable Vector Graphics">SVG</abbr> seemed like
a good way to write it. I quickly realized that this was impractical, because I
haven’t figured how the math works for showing nine o’clock.

So instead I decided to do something simpler, like representing time with
vertical bars. It was fairly easy to get the basics going; it’s just lines and
some JavaScript fiddling. I then discovered this wouldn’t work either, because
Dashboard apparently doesn’t render embedded
<abbr class="smallcaps">SVG</abbr>.

So instead I swapped out my existing <abbr class="smallcaps">SVG</abbr> for a
few `<div>`s (non-semantic). Despite the inevitable frustration that my
attempts at JavaScript involve, I managed to get everything working. I ran the
code through [JSLint][jslint] and made some recommended changes and a bit of
refactoring. Unfortunately, I still had no way of releasing the widget. Because
I’m using Tumblr as the entirety of my web site, I had no file space.

 [jslint]: http://www.jslint.com/

Today I decided to experiment with git, and dropped by GitHub. I noticed that
free accounts include free repositories. After some surprisingly simple setup,
I now have a nicely open source distribution method.

[Get the Dripping Clock widget!][dc]

 [dc]: http://github.com/stilist/dripping-clock/tree/master
