BOOKMARK: http://delicious.com/url/eb6416fd723da8e71614326ee560e394
LINK: http://www.esquire.com/print-this/superman-supermarket
PERMALINK: http://ratafia.info/post/70745369/superman-comes-to-the-supermarket-esquire-01960
PUBLISHED: Jan 15th, 02009 3:59pm
TAGS: election01960, johnfkennedy, normanmailer, politics

Norman Mailer’s lengthy article on the 01960 Democratic National Convention.

Although the whole thing is well-written, I was particularly taken by the
section on America’s struggle between two personas: the boring, everyday ‘real
world’, and the world of dreams and heroes. It’s too lengthy to republish here,
but I’ll give a few excerpts.

> Since the First World War Americans have been leading a double life, and our
> history has moved on two rivers, one visible, the other underground; there
> has been the history of politics which is concrete, factual, practical and
> unbelievably dull if not for the consequences of the actions of some of these
> men; and there is a subterranean river of untapped, ferocious, lonely and
> romantic desires, that concentration of ecstasy and violence which is the
> dream life of the nation.

> …

> Once, in the Second World War and in the year or two which followed, the
> underground river returned to earth, and the life of the nation was intense,
> of the present, electric; as a lady said, “That was the time when we gave
> parties which changed people’s lives." The Forties was a decade when the
> speed with which one’s own events occurred seemed as rapid as the history of
> the battlefields, and for the mass of people in America a forced march into a
> new jungle of emotion was the result.

> …

> Forced underground again, deep beneath all
> <span class='magazine'>Reader’s Digest</span> hospital dressings of Mental
> Health in Your Community, the myth continued to flow, fed by television and
> the film. The fissure in the national psyche widened to the danger point. The
> last large appearance of the myth was the vote which tricked the polls and
> gave Harry Truman his victory in ’48. That was the last. Came the Korean War,
> the shadow of the H-bomb, and we were ready for the General. Uncle Harry gave
> way to Father, and security, regularity, order, and the life of no
> imagination were the command of the day. If one had any doubt of this, there
> was Joe McCarthy with his built-in treason detector, furnished by God, and
> the damage was done. In the totalitarian wind of those days, anyone who
> worked in Government formed the habit of being not too original, and many a
> mind atrophied from disuse and private shame. At the summit there was
> benevolence with leadership, regularity without vision, security without
> safety, rhetoric without life.
