TAGS: github, tumblr

Today I began work on a new Tumblr theme. I decided I’d start keeping everything related to the blog [in GitHub][rcgh], and develop ‘live’ by pushing <abbr class='smallcaps'>CSS</abbr> updates and working in the Tumblr editor. Great idea, but there’s a problem: trying to load the <abbr class='smallcaps'>CSS</abbr> file doesn’t work right. Most of the time there’s a [delay of at least a minute][ghwi] before it loads, even when it’s already in my browser cache. In my cursory search I wasn’t able to find any mention by GitHub for or against using it as a file server. They evidently support it in some capacity since they launched ‘pages’; I may try to set up the needed files as a branch of some sort inside my page repository and see if I can fix it that way. It’d give me a much shorter <abbr class='smallcaps'>URL</abbr>, if nothing else!

 [ghwi]: http://flickr.com/photos/stilist/3181256116/
 [rcgh]: http://github.com/stilist/ratafiacurrant/tree/master

So I decided I’d poke around to see if my domain registrar offered anything useful. Turns out I get some free hosting and I can add subdomains and so on, but at the moment they don’t seem to be working. It could be a <abbr class='smallcaps'>DNS</abbr> propagation thing.

While I was involved with that, I discovered I also have a free email address for my domain. With a little fiddling I got that set up and now it’s a transparent alias for my previous primary address at Gmail; everything directed to it is automatically forwarded, and I can easily send as it via Gmail’s web interface or [Mail.app][malias].

 [malias]: http://www.macosxhints.com/article.php?story=20010401111133239

Now there’s the bother of gradually changing my email address across dozens of websites… but at least it’ll be done if I ever move off Gmail.