BOOKMARK: http://delicious.com/url/cb549baccd9429b1b8cb84b8b30539f2
LINK: http://java.sun.com/jsp_utils/PrintPage.jsp?url=http%3A%2F%2Fjava.sun.com%2Fdeveloper%2FtechnicalArticles%2FInterviews%2Fgelernter_qa.html
PUBLISHED: Jan 8th, 2009 11:25am
TAGS: davidgelernter, interview, lifestream

## On lifestreams

> Those are the goals of our [lifestream][ls] (or “information beam”) project. In our
> view of the future, users will no longer care about operating systems or
> computers; they’ll care about their own streams, and other people’s. I can
> tune in my stream wherever I am. I can shuffle other streams into mine — to the
> extent I have permission to use other people’s streams. My own personal
> stream, my electronic life story, can have other streams shuffled into
> it — streams belonging to groups or organizations I’m part of. And eventually
> I'll have, for example, newspaper and magazine streams shuffled into my
> stream also. I follow my own life, and the lives of the organizations I’m
> part of, and the news, etc., by watching the stream flow.

 [ls]: http://cs-www.cs.yale.edu/homes/freeman/lifestreams.html

## On document previews

> My desktop might be crammed with icons, but the icons tell me basically
> nothing about what’s inside the corresponding files, apps, and so on. My
> file system, mailer and net search engine return mainly lists of words; I
> have to read them line by line.

> Compare that to how I search my office for a document. My visual sense is
> key. I remember roughly where I put the document and what it looks like.
> Or compare this to how I interact with a magazine stand: my visual sense
> guides me to things that interest me. Once I’ve got a magazine in hand, I can
> flip through it and find what’s interesting.

> If info-beams weren’t visual and browsable, they’d be worthless. Each element
> in the stream must show you a compressed visual summary of its document; when
> you touch a stream element, you instantly get a larger visual summary.

This interview took place in 2003, several years before technology like Quick Look was released.
