KEYWORDS: meta, tumblr
LICENSE: CC:BY-SA
PERMALINK: http://ratafia.info/post/74071556/back-on-the-air
PUBLISHED: 02009-01-29T11:37:00-0500
TITLE: Back on the Air
UPDATED: 02009-01-29T11:37:00-0500
--
For the past day, I was unable to post here, or use Tumblr at all, because I
locked myself out. This was a result of several actions on my part:

* I recently began moving some accounts to use an email address at this domain
(ratafia.info) rather than Gmail’s.
* I use 1Password pretty heavily, so most of my logins are no longer in my
memory.
* There are few sites that don’t use cookies to keep users logged in.
* The other night I installed [GlimmerBlocker][gb] and wiped my browser to get
rid of tracking cookies and empty my browser history. (More on this subject
in another post, perhaps.)
* I make mistakes.

 [gb]: http://glimmerblocker.org/

Put together, this means that when I changed my Tumblr login to use the new
email address, I only went halfway — moving it from `@gmail.com` to
`@ratafia.com` instead of `@ratafia.info`. When I deleted my cookies, I was,
naturally, logged out of Tumblr. When I tried to use 1Password to log in, it
had the wrong email address.

After several hours of frustration, I emailed Tumblr support asking what email
address I was actually supposed to be using. I didn’t have high hopes for a
response, because that definitely looks like an attempt at social engineering.
Nevertheless, this morning I got a response, discovered my error in the email
changeover, and am now back in (and with all the login information corrected).

It’s certainly an unusual feeling to be locked out of one’s own website; it’s
one I will hopefully avoid in the future.
