BOOKMARK: http://delicious.com/url/8060347678e778ad99da691dc4f14e01
LINK: http://edge.org/3rd_culture/gelernter/gelernter_p1.html
PERMALINK: /post/69435370/the-second-coming-a-manifesto-edge-02000
PUBLISHED: Jan 9th, 02009 3:05pm
TAGS: davidgelernter, future, lifestream

Another Gelernter piece. I’m about done now.

The manifest seems to be effectively one for cloud computing. The whole
thing is certainly worth reading, but I’ve pulled out some highlights for
commentary.

> Theme of the Second Age [of computing] now approaching: computing transcends
> computers. Information travels through a sea of anonymous, interchangeable
> computers like a breeze through tall grass. A desktop computer is a
> scooped-out hole in the beach where information from the Cybersphere wells up
> like seawater.

…

> Today’s operating systems and browsers are obsolete because people no longer
> want to be connected to computers — near ones OR remote ones. (They probably
> never did). They want to be connected to information. In the future, people
> are connected to cyberbodies; cyberbodies drift in the computational cosmos
> — also known as the Swarm, the Cybersphere.

> **From the Prim Pristine Net to the Omnipresent Swarm**

> The computing future is based on “cyberbodies” — self-contained,
> neatly-ordered, beautifully-laid-out collections of information, like
> immaculate giant gardens.

> You will walk up to any “tuner" (a computer at home, work or the
> supermarket, or a TV, a telephone, any kind of electronic device) and slip in
> a “calling card,” which identifes a cyberbody. The tuner tunes it in. The
> cyberbody arrives and settles in like a bluebird perching on a branch.

> Your whole electronic life will be stored in a cyberbody. You can summon
> it to any tuner at any time.

> By slipping it your calling card, you customize any electronic device you
> touch; for as long as it holds your card, the machine knows your habits and
> preferences better than you know them yourself.

I think this ‘cyberbody’ idea is beginning to appear in the form of cloud
computing, although both names are somewhat regrettable. I don’t really mean
cloud computing in the sense of ‘everything is stored on the network’ — that’s a
limited view, and only captures the present. Instead, I’m thinking of what comes
next. As a result of improved capabilities in mobile hardware, increasing
connectivity, and a general willingness to utilize the cloud, computers are
moving in the direction of dumb terminals.

Desktops (both towers and laptops) are still important due to their computation
power and the network’s general lack of such. But netbooks and smartphones are
definitely on the rise, and many people have overpowered computers anyways. As
we gradually accept the idea of doing everything online, there is increasingly
less reason to keep big powerful machines around in the house. I’ve been using
a lower-end laptop as my sole Computer for about a year now, with no real
concerns.

Getting back to the ‘cyberbody’ concept: it’s odd that keycards are assumed to
be the method that will be used for access and verification. Perhaps it was
the spirit of the dot-com boom that influenced the choice, in the same way I
assume the ‘cyberbody’ term is a result of sci-fi and early web culture.
Regardless, it seems that the more immediate method is email or user logins of
some manner (e.g. MobileMe, which presumably binds everything to one’s Apple
email/password combo). Perhaps things *will* shift in the direction of
keycards, or biometrics, or something similar, but I wouldn’t look for it as an
early sign.

Of course, my perspective is just as rooted in the near-future as Gelernter’s
was. :)

> Any well-designed next-generation electronic gadget will come with a
> “Disable Omniscience” button.

Such as the iPhone’s ‘flight mode’, perhaps? I don’t know how this fits with
plugging in for data — seems to me that the device would be largely useless
without the ‘cyberbody’. Perhaps it’s mean to function as a basic smartphone
that can be greatly enhanced by a user’s personalized information?

> If a million people use a Web site simultaneously, doesn’t that mean that
> we must have a heavy-duty remote server to keep them all happy? No; we could
> move the site onto a million desktops and use the internet for coordination.
> […] (We used essentially this technique to build the first tuple space
> implementations. They seemed to depend on a shared server, but the server was
> an illusion; there was no server, just a swarm of clients.) Could Amazon.com
> be an itinerant horde instead of a fixed Central Command Post? Yes.

And, in fact, Amazon [did jumpstart cloud computing][as3] (though perhaps
prompted by the success of Gmail).

 [as3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_S3

> The windows-menus-mouse “desktop” interface, invented by Xerox and Apple
> and now universal, was a brilliant invention and is now obsolete. It wastes
> screen-space on meaningless images, fails to provide adequate clues to what
> is inside the files represented by those blurry little images…

Again [pushing icon previews][previews].

 [previews]: http://ratafia.info/post/69174869/computer-visions-a-conversation-with-david-gelernter

> If you have three pet dogs, give them names. If you have 10,000 head of
> cattle, don’t bother.

Worth use as a maxim.

> File cabinets and human minds are information-storage systems. We could
> model computerized information-storage on the mind instead of the file
> cabinet if we wanted to.

> Elements stored in a mind do not have names and are not organized into
> folders; are retrieved not by name or folder but by contents. (Hear a voice,
> think of a face: you’ve retrieved a memory that contains the voice as one
> component.) You can see everything in your memory from the standpoint of
> past, present and future. Using a file cabinet, you classify information when
> you put it in; minds classify information when it is taken out. (Yesterday
> afternoon at four you stood with Natasha on Fifth Avenue in the rain — as you
> might recall when you are thinking about “Fifth Avenue,” “rain,” “Natasha” or
> many other things. But you attached no such labels to the memory when you
> acquired it. The classification happened retrospectively.)

Stuff like Spotlight and Google Desktop Search are helping us move in this
direction. Of course, the idea (and even software) isn’t really new. From
[an article by Chuq von Rospach][cvr]:

> I came to Apple to work on its Unix products — at the time, a version of Unix
> called <abbr class='smallcaps'>A/UX</abbr>. I spent the first half of my time
> there working with a wide array of things, mostly enterprise
> products — <abbr class='smallcaps'>A/UX</abbr>, Data Access Language,
> AppleShare, AppleSearch, 3270 and Token Ring. Other than Unix, most of the
> products were at best marginal successes and generally soon cancelled.
> AppleSearch was by far my favorite — a technology to help you find content on
> your server. You may have heard of its grandson, called Spotlight, standard
> since April [0]2005 on Mac OS X. Ten years? That’s a pretty long gestation
> for a feature.

 [cvr]: http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/2009/jan/02/apple-macworld-lookback/print "‘Enjoying the show, avoiding  the flamethrower: life inside Apple’; The Guardian"

Back to the manifesto.

> The lifestream (or some other system with the same properties) will
> become the most important information-organizing structure in computing — 
> because even a rough imitation of the human mind is vastly more powerful than
> the most sophisticated file cabinet ever conceived.

Although my first thought was ‘it depends on just how rough that is’, a
moment’s consideration is enough to convince me this is true. Certainly our
[present attempts][ase] are fairly weak and just summarize what’s going on, but
they’re already more humanizing because they 1) turn the data back into a human
story, and 2) make it simpler to watch what’s going on.

 [ase]: http://wiki.diso-project.org/activity-streams-examples "DiSo wiki collection of activity stream examples"

> Lifestreams don’t yield the “paperless office.” (The “paperless office”
> is a bad idea because paper is one of the most useful and valuable media ever
> invented.) But lifestreams can turn office paper into a temporary medium — 
> for use, not storage. “On paper” is a good place for information you want to
> use; a bad place for information you want to store. In the stream-based
> office, for each newly-created or -received paper document: scan it into the
> stream and throw it away. When you need a paper document: find it in the
> stream; print it out; use it; if you wrote on the paper while using it, scan
> it back in; throw it out.

Questionable, but I don’t know if it’s right or wrong. Paper is a wasteful
technology. Most information can easily be digital for its entire life.

> **But What Does It All Matter?**

> If you have plenty of money, the best consequence (so they say) is that
> you no longer need to think about money. In the future we will have plenty of
> technology — and the best consequence will be that we will no longer have to
> think about technology.

> We will return with gratitude and relief to the topics that actually count.

Fitting to close with a restatement of the idea that good design is invisible.
