BOOKMARK: http://delicious.com/url/e65127710381c3b42007884e28ea15ce
LINK: http://memex.org/meme1-03.html
PERMALINK: /post/72420994/meme-1-03
PUBLISHED: Jan 22nd, 02009 5:36pm
TAGS: apple, davidbennahum, history, technology

<cite><span class='person'>David Bennahum</span>, 01995:</cite>

> Thanks to the microprocessor things get so much more powerful so quickly that
> there is a real fear of not being “backwards compatible”, meaning the files
> from <ins>[0]</ins>1982 should still somehow run in the word-processor from
> <ins>[0]</ins>1982, even if it is <ins>[0]</ins>1995. This kind of
> uncertainty scares people with really big pockets, people who have thousands
> of employees and can spend thousands on one order. From day one those people
> were just \*not\* going to spend money on a company called
> <span class='company'>Apple</span> best known for a machine built in a garage
> by two hackers, a machine that kids loved because of the video games. We seem
> to forget those days.

> A little bit of history.

> In 1981 <span class='company'><abbr class='smallcaps'>IBM</abbr></span>
> launched its first personal computer, the aptly named Personal Computer. Back
> then there was only one kind of personal computer —  the video game machine.
> You had three choices: <span class='company'>Atari</span>, Apple and
> <span class='company'>Commodore</span>. Weirdoes who liked monochrome bought
> TRS-80s (<abbr class='smallcaps'>aka</abbr> the “trash eighty”) from
> <span class='company'>Radio Shack</span> with an audio-cassette tape drive.
> In this kind of universe, you’re Apple and you’re thinking “how are we going
> to convince companies that a personal computer belongs in their offices?” The
> answer is, you’re not. No way. Not Apple. Not Atari. Not anyone but
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>IBM</abbr> is ever going to convince corporate
> America to buy this thing called a <abbr class='smallcaps'>PC</abbr>. So
> Apple, rightfully, walked away from a market they never were a contender in;
> and from <ins>[0]</ins>1981 to <ins>[0]</ins>1994 the office market drove the
> expansion of personal computer industry.

> …

> The Pippin is part of a project with <span class='company'>Bandai</span>, a
> Japanese game company known for its effluvium of Saturday morning cartoons,
> video games, and other brain candy for kids. The logic goes like this. As
> computers become household commodities, like consumer electronics, Apple
> stands heads above the other <abbr class='smallcaps'>PC</abbr> makers as the
> only one with any concept of design, marketing and the shopper’s
> impulse — the kind of stuff Walkmen, Swatches and GameBoys are made of. With
> the increasing popularity of the Internet, the demand for cheap household
> computers will dovetail nicely with the demand for ever more immersive
> video-game machines. Who else but Apple has the skill to enter this market?
> Who? If Apple is lucky they will forge an alliance with
> <span class='company'>Sony</span> and build these $300 hybrid
> <abbr class='smallcaps'>PC</abbr>/video-game/Internet gateways together.
> Could you imagine how many they would sell at Christmas? Tons.
