PERMALINK: /post/72339982/agents-of-alienation
PUBLISHED: Jan 22nd, 02009 10:50am
TAGS: artificialintelligence, generalmagic, jaronlanier, wired

Back on the tenth, I read a somewhat unusual [essay][aoa] by
<span class='person'>Jaron Lanier</span> seemingly railing against
<abbr class='smallcaps' title='Artificial Intelligence'>AI</abbr>.
The premise of the essay seemed to be that we can’t program artificial
intelligences that are actually intelligent, so using them requires that we act
as stupidly as the software. Lanier is quite negative about the whole thing,
and seemingly feels the entire concept is hopeless and debasing.

 [aoa]: http://jaronlanier.com/agentalien.html "‘Agents of Alienation’, 01995"

This seemed pretty odd to me, since Lanier’s the guy who really
[pushed virtual reality][jli] — and what’s a virtual world without computers
that enforce the illusion?

 [jli]: http://web.archive.org/web/20010520132549/http://www.advanced.org/jaron/vrint.html "‘A Portrait of the Young Visionary’, 01988"

Yesterday I accidentally resumed the thread, and found a variety of writing
that clarified what Lanier was really complaining
about — <span class='organization'>General Magic</span>’s ‘intelligent agents’,
programmed with a language called Telescript.

The first hint was in <span class='person'>David Bennahum</span>’s
[MEME, issue two][meme102] (01995), which is actually about cloud storage:

 [meme102]: http://memex.org/meme1-02.html

> A company much maligned for its over-hyped “intelligent agents”,
> General Magic, has created a programming
> language called Telescript at an estimated <abbr class='smallcaps'>R&D</abbr>
> cost of $300,000,000. Telescript is designed to allow mobile software
> (<abbr lang='la'>i.e.</abbr> intelligent agents) to share both disk space
> and processing power over decentralized networks (Oh, yeah, you won’t find
> much talk about that on their site right now. They are very wary of
> over-hyping their technology). A little too far of its time, Telescript lies
> temporarily dormant.

Eventually I came to the [01994 <span class='magazine'>Wired</span> article][w]
about General Magic and the Telescript software:

 [w]: http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/2.04/general.magic_pr.html "‘Bill and Andy’s Excellent Adventure Ⅱ’"

> <span class='person'><ins>Jim</ins> White</span>, the wizard who had
> developed the standard x.400 networking protocol, envisioned a network which
> was not merely a pipeline for messages, but a platform of its own — a
> seething system where every message was literally a computer program that
> executed itself as it went out on the Net. Each message would be a software
> agent, a sort of digital servant performing a task for the person who sent it
> out. Sounds scary, and actually it is. But if you could control the agents
> you’d have something terrifically powerful.

> “At that time (<ins>0</ins>1990), we weren’t thinking in terms of agents,
> we weren’t thinking in terms of making the network into a platform,” says
> <span class='person'>Bill <ins>Atkinson</ins></span>. “When Jim first
> brought up agents, I had in my mind knowledge-navigator
> types — anthropomorphic, obsequious little sci-fi agents. But then I realized
> that he wasn’t talking about these human personalities so much as traveling
> programs that can take my will with them.”

> The system is called Telescript, and it’s the most interesting part of
> General Magic technology. In previous network
> architectures, a message was like a letter zipped down a chute — nothing
> happened to it between the time it was sent and the time it was received. But
> in Telescript, the network isn’t a system of chutes but a sort of beehive,
> with the messages actively poking around and doing things. The closest thing
> to it is Postscript, which changed the way printers worked by substituting
> rigid output from a computer application to a vibrant page description
> language that allows for the open-ended capabilities that come from computer
> programming. <span class='person'>Marc Porat</span>, with typical flourish,
> has described Telescript as “machinery that gives people the magical ability
> to project their desires into cyberspace; that ties together networks of all
> sorts into one seamless, invisible, central nervous system…”

> …

> “It’s the enabling piece,” explains Bill. “The real simple kind of example is
> instead of calling up Dow Jones every morning and saying, ‘How’s Apple stock,
> is it over a hundred yet?’ I’ll send an agent out. I don’t even have to know
> what an agent is, I just fill out a little form and this agent goes out and
> lives at Dow Jones, and six months later, a card drops in my pocket that
> says, ‘Apple stock just broke a hundred.’”

> “The beauty of Telescript,” says
> <span class='person'>Andy <ins>Hertzfeld</ins></span>, “is that now,
> instead of just having a device to program, we now have the entire Cloud out
> there, where a single program can go and travel to many different sources of
> information and create sort of a virtual service. No one had conceived that
> before. The example Jim White uses now is a date-arranging service where a
> software agent goes to the flower store and orders flowers and then goes to
> the ticket shop and gets the tickets for the show, and everything is
> communicated to both parties.”

This helped immensely. It explained the jab at the
‘“<span class='magazine'>Wired</span>-style” community’, and explained more of
what the ‘intelligent agent’ concept was actually about. I still don’t really
understand why Lanier was so vehement — I agree that software is often
simplistic and we have to struggle with it to accomplish things, but I fail to
see how that invalidates the concept of machine assistants. Despite what he
says, we *have* gotten better at it over time. Will we ever create a program
that’s smarter than its creators?

[Possibly][techsing], and its reality will be virtual.

 [techsing]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technological_singularity "Wikipedia article for technological singularity"
