PERMALINK: /post/74329819/timely-spam
PUBLISHED: Jan 30th, 02009 10:51am
TAGS: spam

Several variants of this in my spambox.

> Good day, Respective Sir or Madam!

> With your permission, we are sending you information about the most valuable
> money grants program, ever released to the American public. News of the
> surprising information is spreading like wildfire among good, honest, decent
> and hard working men and women struggling to deal with exorbitant food
> prices... 14 year high unemployment levels... the sub-prime mortgage crisis
> and what President Barack Obama has referred to as the worst economic crisis
> since the great depression.

> In the program free kit you will find the complete "secret" methods of
> applying for the pile of grant money waiting to be handed out by the
> U.S. Government, including how to see if you qualify for the money to help
> pay your mortgage, cover your health care bills or live on while you start
> your own business.

> Millions of people just like you are already enjoying Government grant money.
> You work hard for your money and can write an application to see if you
> qualify for a share of the pie. But you're missing out every single year,
> simply because you don't know about the programs you might qualify for.

> So, send us a reply right away to `—@gmail.com` and see if you qualify.
> Hurry, as the offers are limited!

> Regards,
> the Government Grants Manager

The government uses Gmail and runs email informercials, and the
[<abbr class='smallcaps'>FBI</abbr> endorses 419ers][fbi].

 [fbi]: http://flickr.com/photos/stilist/3042266854/
